probably around the Pennines and eastwards.
So that means that Irish Sea coasts, the coasts of Wales and
certainly through the Midlands and the south, the weather isn’t
looking too bad at all on Friday.
Now, beyond that, the weather pattern is going to change.
We are no longer going to have the cold current of air from
the north, we’re going to see a low pressure, and that low pressure
is going to push some subtropical air in our direction,
so we cut off that source of cold air.
Now, with that comes a weather front. There will be
outbreaks of rain, so you can already see that
Saturday is not looking pretty across the UK.
At least the winds aren’t going to be too awful,
I think we’re talking about a breezy day but nothing more than that.
And you can see the temperatures are rising, 15 degrees in London,
still single figures in the north. Now, that low pressure
is going to hang around, so, inevitably the weather is
going to be unsettled through the weekend.
Here’s a cold front. Behind it, we will see some colder air
coming in, but ahead of it, just in that south—eastern portion
of the UK and in East Anglia, temporarily, with southerly
winds, we could see temperatures nudging up to 20 degrees,
possibly more. We’ll call it around 19 in London and in Norwich.
But here in the north and the west, where the cold air is
already digging in from the north, it’s turning a little
bit cooler. And you can see that weather front, the cold front,
pushes across the UK into more central parts of Europe
during the course of Monday and early in the week,
so wrapped around this area of low pressure we’ve got the
colderairfeeding in, and again, this pattern here in the rain,
this blotchy pattern is an indication
that further showers are on the cards.
But it’s not going to be particularly cold on Monday,
we’re talking around the mid—teens across the UK.
That’s because the air is not coming in from the north.
Now, Tuesday, and into Wednesday, the jet stream is expected to
stay to the south of the UK. When we see this pattern,
we know that colder air will tend to drift in from the north
and spread across the UK. Now, I know there’s some yellows there,
so relatively mild air, but the really warm air is going
to stay to the south of us, and that is a hint that later next week,
things are going to stay pretty cool across the UK,
so it looks as though, overall, the chilly spring weather is
set to continue into next week. That’s it from me, bye—bye.
I didn’t have a weakness. I was strong in all departments.
In the ‘80s, snooker was a national obsession.
It was everywhere.
People became addicted.
When they come into the room, there’s, like, an aura.
It was just crazy, crazy times, you know.
Now we’re getting headlines, for good and for bad.
You ran shove your snooker up - I ain’t playing.
Revealing the inside stories of the Gods Of Snooker...
On Thursday, May the 6th, voters across Scotland head to the polls.
But what do the results mean for you?
For full coverage, expert analysis
and the latest news as the results roll in...
..join us for Election 2021 Scotland.
Other Oscars handed out included Best Documentary
of self Africa’s love affair with the octopus.
We went into the Oscars believing that Steven
Soderbergh, a film—maker was one of the producers
of the Oscars show, was going to reinvent
the Oscars ceremony and use the restrictions imposed
by Covid—19 to create something quite wondrous.
Well, it didn’t quite work.
The evening started on a promising note,
with actor and director Regina King strutting
through Union Station while theatrical credits
appeared on the screen.
Steven Soderbergh had said the Oscars would unfold
like a movie.
It didn’t totally deliver that way.
There was a nice intimate supper club atmosphere,
but acceptance speeches dragged on.
There was not much humour, although Glenn close did do
a little dance, which was quite funny.
But there was no overarching concept that bound everything
together that shone through.
I think there are just some hindrances, just given
the pandemic and what it’s wreaked on Hollywood
and the precautions that obviously had to go into effect
in order for it to even take place in person.
I do think that they really successfully pulled off
the whole no mask thing.
I think it was really exciting for everyone watching,
obviously, to see talent without masks, all dressed up,
showing off their famous faces.
And it kind of brought a sense of normalcy to the whole night.
For those tuning in to watch the ceremony at home,
there was a range of opinion.
Certainly some disappointment.
It did seem rather not relevant any more tonight,
unfortunately, but
it used to feel relevant.
And that, I think, was a bit sad, really, to watch and...
They were celebrating so much and it really didn’t feel
like we were celebrating current culture, really.
It just felt a bit distant from the media and things
I have seen over the past last year.
I enjoyed it.
It was good to see how they transformed
Union Station into
an intimate atmosphere, it had tables and the way
they were set in tears on top of each other.
When the ratings came in the day after the Oscars,
it was a disastrous showing.
Less than 10 million tuned in to watch the US,
a low record last year for the last Oscars pulling
in more than 23 million viewers.
When the problems is the potential audience for this
year’s Oscars ceremony shown on ABC TV had little awareness
of the crop of Best picture nominees.
The extent to which this is an asterisk year,
I think they get a pass.
It is amazingly pulled off a show at all.
I think it was incredibly logistically challenging
and we shouldn’t be too harsh on them.
I think that the people at ABC know full well that the movies
that were in contention are what make ratings
and the movies were not well known.
The movie business is shaky.
It is not sure where it is heading and there is this
terrible precipice that could just...
People...
The exhibition could just disappear.
And there could be no movies, and we could be watching
everything on TV.
I don’t think that is going to happen, but that is
the backdrop for a grimmer, sadder Oscars and we have
to pull out and recover and bring people back
to the cinemas.
And one day, very soon, take everyone you know
into a theatre shoulder to shoulder in that dark space
and watch every film that is represented here tonight.
A big part of the traditional Oscars ceremony is the
humongous red carpet.
This year, there was a red carpet, but much more modest.
But the organisers were keen on fashion.
They issued a dress code instruction to nominees,
that they should dress in a way that was inspirational
and aspirational — whatever that means.
But stylists did work with Hollywood stars to get
them to express themselves through fashion, as Triston
Daly reports.
At the Oscars this year was a small step towards normalcy.
Some of Hollywood’s most recognisable faces walked
the socially distanced red carpet.
This year’s Oscar fashion was really strong and I think
that added on to the enthusiasm ofjust the public being
excited to watch the red carpet before the ceremony.
We saw a lot of the midriff trends happening on the
red carpet.
Andre Day looked amazing in her gown and that dress,
Vera Wang went to a welder to create because it is totally
made out of metal.
Laurie Thys, stylist to Best Actress nominee
Andre Day and Best Singer Songwriter has felt
the pressure of working with clients through
this pandemic.
There are moments where I am yelling with them,
there are moments where I am a person, but it has been
a little bit of both.
Fittings via Zoom and know sitting close in and making
sure that things are there.
Trying to get a good gauge and division and making sure
the cameras in the right place so you can see
everything, you know?
It has been a bit of a challenge in that way,
but we are pushing through, so it is a good thing.
of adjusting to working in the midst of a pandemic.
Without red carpets for a good portion of award season,
the fanfare in the form of endless flash photography
and press yelling at stars names was missing.
But place of the carpet was a more intimate venue
for celebrities to display fashion.
We have been in all these people’s homes
and in their backyards.
I have had to bring gear.
I would say it has made photographing a bit
more intimate.
The second you step into someone’s home,
everything is stripped down, you know?
And I feel like there is a level of personal ability
and connectivity that you get from being inside these
people’s homes, it is really cool.
Some agree there is an upside of seeing celebrities
in their homes but the red carpet is unmatched
in terms of glamour.
This award season, the Oscars was able to set itself apart
when it comes to spectacle.
I think people are really tired of Zooms and these
virtual events.
In my opinion, we need physical award shows,
we need physicalfashion shows in orderfor these things
to survive because fashion and film, they need to be seen
in order to survive.
Well, with Oscars 2021 behind us, where will we be
one year hence?
Who’ll be the possible Academy award winners in 2022?
Talking Movies has been trying to find out.
I thinkJennifer Hudson has a good chance of getting
the nomination for best actress in Respect.
She was hand—picked by Aretha Franklin herself
to play her in the biopic, and we have seen her do her
magic in playing Dream Girls Effie and her singing
won her the Oscar that year.
It would be great to see her do a repeat and if she did that it
would be the icing on the cake.
I really like Ana de Armis, who is coming off brilliantly
in 2019 with Knives Out.
You can see her maybe in a year being best actress
for her role in Blonde, which is a fictionalised take
on Marilyn Monroe, based on the novel by Carol Oates,
I think it is going to be talked about a lot
for best actress.
One of my big picks for best actor in 2022 is
Denzil Washington.
He is in Oscar’s favourite, he has already won two Oscars
over the course of his illustrious career and in his
next film he is playing none other than the role of Macbeth.
You cannot ask for a better role than Macbeth.
If the film is as good as everybody hopes, I think
Denzil Washington stands a really, really good chance.
I think that in 2022, it is going to be Oscar
Isaacs’s year.
He has a role coming up in The Card Counter,
a new movie that involves a gambler and a revenge plot.
Itjust sounds juicy and fun, but also a meaty role
and I just can’t to see what Oscar Isaac does with it.
A huge contender for getting the Oscar for best director
at the 2022 Academy Awards is Nia DaCosta for Candyman.
She is talking about social justice and racial relations
in America in the history of Black Americans in this
country.
It would be awesome if she was recognised
for that work.
I think the best director next year, actually someone
who is really in the conversation this year
and that is director Chloe Zhao, with her next film,
Eternals, which really stepped up to the plate of directing
a Hollywood blockbuster.
It is a Marvel film and early buzz on the film says
she really hits it out of the park, but also stays
true to who she is as a film—maker.
It is hard for me to imagine best picture going to anything
other than Westside Story.
You know, it is Steven Spielberg’s first musical.
We are coming into a year where all I think people
will want is big entertainment that reminds you of what movies
can do, so it seems like a shoe in for best picture.
I suspect we will have Dune winning the Oscar for Best
picture in 2022.
People will be engrossed by the cinematic magnitude
of this film.
It’s starring Oscar Isaac and Timothy Charlemagne.
I think it is one of those stories that has been called
unfilmable because it is so expensive, but overall
I think this will be a fan favourite at the Oscars.
My pick for Best picture is actually a film I thought
was going to win best picture this year and that the film
In The Heights.
It was delayed due to the pandemic, but now it’s
finally being released this summer.
Millions of people are clamouring to see this beloved
musical by Lin—Manuel Miranda brought to life
by the director.
I think it could be the best pic.
What a strange year for the Oscars, a very unusual
ceremony, record low ratings, at least in the United States,
and clearly there is a lot of thinking that needs to be
done, but what does bring reassurance is that all eight
pictures up for Best picture all were very fine films.
I was very pleased that no man [and won for Best picture,
I was very pleased that Nomadland [and won for
Best Picture, but personally I would
I would have liked to seen another film get
the best prize.
So for me, Tom Brook, the rest of the Talking Movies
team here at Los Angeles, New York and London,
it is goodbye, as we leave you with the song that won
for Best Original Song at this years Oscars.
# Always fight for you # I always...
# Always fight for you # See it through...
# Baby, you # Always fight for you.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
Welcome to BBC News — I’m Lewis Vaughanjones.
Our top stories:
global vaccine rollout,
the United States backs an idea to remove intellectual property
protections for coronavirus vaccines.
Facebook upholds its suspension of Donald Trump, ruling
that the former President broke its rules.
The UK is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to monitor a planned blockade ofJersey’s main port.
It’s the latest escalation with France over post—Brexit
fishing rights.
The entire Indian delegation at the G7 summit in London,
is self—isolating after two members test positive for
coronavius.
Nine little miracles.
A woman in Mali expecting to give birth to seven children
has been surprised by two more.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America and around
the globe.
After increased pressure the Biden administration says
it supports a removing patent protections for
Covid—19 vaccines.
The move aims to make it easier for more companies to produce
vaccines and make them more widely available
for developing countries.
US Trade Representative Katherine Tie said in
a statement: "This administration believes
strongly in intellectual property protections,
but in the service of ending this pandemic, supports
the waiver of those protections for Covid—19 vaccines."
Well this was welcomed by the Director—General
of the World Health Organisation, who said this
was "a monumental moment in the fight against Covid—19."
On the other hand — a vaccine waiver makes it
harder for vaccine manufacturers to make money out
of their products.
Shares in a number of them tumbled on the news.
The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
and Associations says the plan is a red herring when it comes
to improving the distribution of vaccines.
Here’s the association’s Director General.
The decision by the US administration is
disappointing, but it doesn’t change that it’s a wrong
answer to complex problem.
It’s a wrong but simple answer to a complex problem
because it disrupts, it distracts from
tackling the real challenges, which are trade barriers,
including from the US, disrupting supply chains.
It prevents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks
in the supply chain, the scarcity of raw materials,
where you really need full partnership.
And it also prevents a fast move because what we need now,
looking at the dramatic situation in India,
is rich countries starting rapidly
to share their doses with poor countries.
It is unfair to see that we have countries
where 20—year—old healthy young people vaccinated,
and most of Africa, basically, doesn’t get
any vaccine now that India is in such a dramatic situation.
Professor George Contreras, is a professor of Law
at the University of Utah and says while addressing
intellectual property rights is important,
it’s only one piece of the puzzle.
It’s a really surprising an unprecedented move by the US
Department of State and the US government, which has usually
been quite protective of intellectual property rights.
OK, so where does this leave us?
What are the implications of it?
You know, as many have said, this is a necessary but not
sufficient step to distributing a Covid vaccine
on a worldwide basis.
Intellectual property rights are there,
they’re important, but there are a lot of other pieces
to the puzzle, including supply and
manufacturing, regulatory approval, safety and so
Facebook says it will continue to stop Donald Trump
from directly using its platforms.
The social media giant ruled the former President had
broken its standards and rules by appearing to sympathise
with January’s Capitol building attack, while continuing
to falsely insist that he had won a landslide victory
in the Presidential election.
Facebook’s oversight board said it upheld the decision,
but that a review would be carried out within six months.
James Clayton has more.
Trumps use of social media
almost possible impossible to disentangle with jumpers amidst
disentangla with jumpers amidst the. It
disentangle with jumpers amidst the. It was his way of
the. It was his way of communicating directly with
communicating directly with Americans, bypassing mainstream
Americans, bypassing mainstream media that he so loathed. The
media that he so loathed. The did he also use that platform
did he also use that platform to radicalise? Were his posts
to radialise? Were his posts in part
to radicalise? Were his posts in part responsible for these
in part responsible for these deadly riots? The Facebook boss
deadly riots? The Facebook boss thought
deadly riots? The Facehook boss thought that
deadly riots? The Facebook boss thought that his posts could
thought that his posts could [cad
thought that his posts could lead to further violence and
lead to further violence and suspended Donald Trump
suspended Donald Trump permanently. Twitter banned him
permanently. Twitter banned him for ever, he will never be
for ever, he will never be allowed onto the platform to
allowed onto the platform to Facebook asked for its decision
Facebook asked for its decision to be reformed —— reviewed by a
to be reformed -- reviewed by a 34
to be reformed -- reviewed by a M __
to be reformed -- reviewed by a 34 -- board
to be reformed —— reviewed by a 3k —— board it claims is
3A —— board it claims is independent. It is designed to
independent. It is designed to make difficult decisions and
make difficult decisions and the decision today was complex
the decision today was complex to get said the oversight board
to get said the oversight board upheld the decision
upheld the decision to suspend access to post content on
access to post content on Facebook and Instagram. But it
Facebook and Instagram. But it also said that Facebook could
also said that Facebook could not ban Donald Trump
not ban Donald Trump indefinitely. The company must
indefinitely. The company must reassess the penalty within six
reassess the penalty within six months. The
reassess the penalty within six months. Thejudgement
reassess the penalty within six months. The judgement does
months. The judgement does leave away back for Donald
leave away back for Donald Tmmp on
leave away back for Donald Trump on Facebook but for now
Tmmp on Facebook but for now the dough --
Trump on Facebook but for now the dough —— door is firmly
the dough -- door is firmly dosed.
the dough —— door is firmly closed. And that is a huge
dosed. And that is a huge problem
closed. And that is a huge problem for Donald Trump and
problem for Donald Tmmp and his hopes of
problem for Donald Trump and his hopes of a political
his hopes of a political return. In a statement, the
return. In a statement, the former president lashed out
former president lashed out saying that Facebook was an
saying that Facebook was an embarrassment to our country.
embarrassment to our country. And they and other social media
And they and other social media countries must pay a political
countries must pay a political price. Facebook has been
price. Facebook has been essential for Mr Trump.
price. Facebook has been essentialfor Mr Trump. His
essential for Mr Trump. His campaign used
essentialfor Mr Trump. His campaign used it to raise money
campaign used it to raise money and micro target voters. He
and micro target voters. He spent more than $200 million in
spent more than $200 million in 2020 between his campaign and
2020 between his campaign and his BAC on
his BAC on Facebook advertising. It is not
his BAC on Facebook advertising. It is notjust an
advertising. It is not just an opinion that
advertising. It is notjust an opinion that it was early in
opinion that it was early in essential part of his political
essential part of his political power, it was one of the few
power, it was one of the few places where he was putting his
places where he was putting his money where his mouth was.
money where his mouth was. Yesterday Mr Trump released his
Yesterday Mr Tmmp released his own
Yesterday Mr Trump released his own communications platform.
own communications platform. That it is really no
That it is really no replacement for being on
replacement for being on Twitter or Facebook. At the
Twitter or Facebook. At the dick
Twitter or Facebook. At the click of a button Mr Trump
click of a button Mr Tmmp could
click of a button Mr Trump could beam himself onto the
could beam himself onto the computers and phones of tens of
computers and phones of tens of millions of Americans to that
millions of Americans to that button is now gone, perhaps for
button is now gone, perhaps for ever.
Israeli President has asked the leader of the centrist
Yesh Atid party, Yair Lapid, to try to form a coalition
government.
It could mean an end to 12 consecutive years in power
for Benjamin Netanyahu — who was unable to form
a coalition of his own after the elections in March.
Our correspondent in Jerusalem Yolande Knell has
the latest.
The president spent the day talking to members of the
talking to members of the different political parties
different political parties here and then he announced his
here and then he announced his decision in a
here and then he announced his decision in alive
here and then he announced his decision in a live broadcast a
decision in a live broadcast a short
decision in alive broadcast a short time ago saying he had
short time ago saying he had asked Yair Lapid, a centrist
asked Yair lapid, a centrist politician,
asked Yair Lapid, a centrist politician, former finance
minister before its time in politics he was a television
politics he was a television anchor. He said he had
anchor. He said he had the backing of 56 of
backing of 56 of the 120 members of the Israeli
members of the Israeli parliament so, obviously,
parliament so, obviously, still short of a majority but he
short of a majority but he thought that he had the best
thought that he had the best chance of being able to form a
chance of being able to form a government that had support of
government that had support of Parliament despite their still
Partiament despite their still being
Parliament despite their still being difficulties, the
being difficulties, the president said. So now Yair
president said. So now Yair Lapid will enter into political
Lapid will enter into political wrangling with many of the
wrangling with many of the other parties that had lined up
other parties that had lined up to oppose Benjamin Netanyahu
to oppose Benjamin Netanyahu returning to another term in
returning to another term in office. But what will be a real
office. But what will be a real challenge for him is that those
challenge for him is that those parties are from across the
parties are from across the political spectrum in Israel
political spectrum in Israel from left to right so they
from left to right so they have dig ideological differences
dig ideological differences between them that he will have
between them that he will have to bridge.
Britain is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to the island ofJersey, in the English Channel,
to monitor the situation after a row erupted with France
over post—Brexit fishing rights.
The French government threatened to cut off power
supplies to the Channel Island in a dispute over new
a licensing system for French fishing vessels.
ButJersey’s government says a more imminent danger
is 3 blockade by fishing boats of St Helier —
the island’s main entry point for goods.
Our correspondent Robert Hall has the latest from
the island.
HIE.
News that those vessels were being deployed followed a phone
being deployed followed a phone call to the Jersey
being deployed followed a phone call to theJersey government
all to the jersey government from
call to theJersey government from Number 10, from Boris
from Number 10, from Doris johnson who
from Number 10, from Boris Johnson who expressed his
Johnson who expressed his unwavering support for
Johnson who expressed his unwavering support forJersey’s
unwavering support for jerseys position. To
unwavering support forJersey’s position. To be fair, Jersey
position. To be fair, jersey politicians
position. To be fair, Jersey politicians have been trying
politicians have been trying hard the past few days to calm
hard the past few days to calm things down ahead of a protest
things down ahead of a protest of which more in the moment.
of which more in the moment. How did we get here? French
How did we get here? French fishermen and Channel Islands
fishermen and Channel Islands fishermen have traditionally
fishermen have traditionally worked together well most of
worked together well most of the time but that is starting
the time but that is starting to go downhill after Brexit
to go downhill after Brexit when
to go downhill after Brexit whenJersey began to
whenJersey began to re—establish its territorial
re—establish its territorial waters to on the weekend it
waters to on the weekend it also began to issue licenses to
also began to issue licenses to French boats. Those licenses
French boats. Those licenses cover boats that I regularly
cover boats that I regularty hear, they
cover boats that I regularly hear, they cover what they can
hear, they cover what they ran catch, the
hear, they cover what they can catch, the amount of time that
catch, the amount of time that they are in Jersey waters and
they are in jersey waters and that
they are in Jersey waters and that was almost immediate
that was almost immediate pushback from the French
pushback from the French communities along the Normandy
communities along the Normandy coast who said, look, this is
coast who said, look, this is untenable. We have not had
untenable. We have not had enough time, there is detail
enough time, there is detail here which is unacceptable and
here which is unacceptable and unworkable. And at a meeting a
unworkable. And at a meeting a couple of days ago they got
couple of days ago they got together with other fishing
together with other fishing ports and said we’re going to
ports and said we’re going to have to do something here. We
have to do something here. We are going to stop
have to do something here. We are going to stopJersey boats
are going to stop jersey boats from
are going to stopJersey boats from landing, will protest in
from landing, will protest in jersey, that
from landing, will protest in Jersey, that looks like it will
jersey, that looks like it will go
Jersey, that looks like it will go ahead, and that we had a
go ahead, and that we had a speech in the
speech in the French Partiament yesterday
speech in the French Parliament yesterday from the Maritime
yesterday from the Maritime minister saying that we may use
minister saying that we may use jerseys
minister saying that we may use Jersey’s supply from our grid
jerseys supply from our grid as a
Jersey’s supply from our grid as a negotiating tool. As I
as a negotiating tool. As I speak around 70 boats are on
speak around 70 boats are on their way to
speak around 70 boats are on their way toJersey,
speak around 70 boats are on their way to Jersey, they will
their way to jersey, they will anchor
their way to Jersey, they will anchor outside St Helier and
anchor outside St Helier and they may be protesting and
they may be protesting and whether the presence of the
whether the presence of the Royal Navy will help or hinder
Royal Navy will help or hinder we shall see in the coming
we shall see in the coming days.
The entire Indian delegation to the G7 Summit is self isolating
the G7 Summit is self isolating after two members tested
after two members tested positive for Covid—19. The news
positive for Covid-19. The news fame as
positive for Covid—19. The news came as Foreign Minister is
came as Foreign Minister is reconvened for the last day of
reconvened for the last day of the talks. Our correspondent
the talks. Our correspondent reports.
Borisjohnson, dropping by the G7
talks this afternoon, determined to show confidence
in an international meeting hit by a Covid scare,
determined to show that face—to—face
diplomacy is possible in a pandemic.
I had a very good meeting with Secretary Blinken.
India’s Foreign Minister, 3 guest at the talks,
has spent the last few days in London meeting counterparts
from the United States and South Africa, even
the Home Secretary, Priti Patel.
But then this morning, this.
In a tweet, he said that he was made
aware yesterday evening of his exposure to possible
Covid positive cases.
"As a measure of abundant caution,
I decided to conduct my engagements
in the virtual mode."
India has suffered grievously in recent weeks, and it appears
two junior officials may have travelled while infected.
The Foreign Office has imposed tight
Covid rules at Lancaster House and the Indian delegation had
yet to attend any meetings here,
but the cases were picked up by mandatory daily tests.
The Foreign Secretary said the problem had been managed
and it was vital for essential diplomacy to continue.
We’ve done this in a very secure way
but we’ve got to get governments together,
leaders together and countries together if we’re going
to solve what is clearly notjust a global
pandemic but a global plan for recovery.
So, today, the Indian ministerjoined the meeting
in the now traditional way.
Officials say the discovery of these
two cases shows the effectiveness
of the tight regulations they put in place.
But it will surely raise questions
about whether it’s too early for face—to—face diplomacy
like this and whether future, planned
international meetings should go
ahead in person as planned.
As it happened, the pandemic was top of today’s agenda.
Ministers agreed to produce more
vaccines, share them more fairly,
but there was no promise to spend
more money doing so.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come: A look
at how rangers in South Africa are going to extreme measures
to tackle the problem of rhino poaching.
I, Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful
to the Republic of South Africa.
After six years of construction and numerous delays,
the Channel Tunnel has been formally opened by the Queen
and President Mitterand.
The tunnel is not yet ready for passengers
and freight services to begin.
For centuries, Christianity and Islam struggled for supremacy.
Now the Pope’s visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
Roger Bannister became the first man in the world
to run a mile in underfour minutes.
Memories of victory as the VE celebrations
reach their climax.
This night is dedicated to everyone who believes
in a future of peace and freedom.
This is BBC News, the latest headlines:
The United States backs an initiative to waive
intellectual property protections for
coronavirus vaccines.
Facebook upholds its suspension of Donald Trump, ruling
that the former President broke it’s rules.
Let’s stay with that story now: Alan Rusbridger is a member
of Facebook’s Oversight Board and we asked him why no clear
decision was made on whether Donald Trump can return
to Facebook.
I think it was a clear answers.
I think that we said they were both right and wrong,
they were right to take the stuff down, they were right
to stop him because he was a clear and present danger
at a time of great volatility in the United States,
but it was wrong then to go on and say, well,
you are banned indefinitely because indefinitely is not
a word that appears anywhere on Facebook’s own rulebook,
and it is an arbitrary thing, and so we’ve just gone back
and said, you know, "Well done forgetting the original
decision right, but can
you think more carefully about defining what what this
period of ban is, and why?"
I’ve been speaking to Even Greer who’s a digital
rights activist and I asked him what he made of the decision
made by the Facebook oversight board.
made by the Facebook oversight board.
I think when we focus on these individual
moderation decisions, especially ones about high
profile individuals like former president Trump, we are missing
the point which is that Facebook’s business model
of harvesting our data and using
it to algorithmically amplify and suppress certain content
is fundamentally incompatible with democracy.
We can go back and forth all day about whether or
not he should have been banned, how long he should be banned
for but in the end that is not
going to solve that fundamental problem.
We need comprehensive policies to address the harms
of big tech.
But given all that you have to make decisions and
just wishing them away by saying that we need stronger
oversight or whatever, in the here and now,
decisions have to be made about whether or not
Donald Trump is allowed back on.
That’s certainly right and I think it makes sense
we’re having this conversation and Donald Trump is a repugnant
human being that has used Facebook and other platforms
to espouse racism and other harmful ideologies.
And so, I certainly understand the ground swell of outrage
and the desire for him to be removed from these
platforms but again I think we need to look at the bigger
picture because even if we do kick Trump off of all of these
platforms we still have a real problem on our hands,
which is that these companies that are
harvesting our data and amplifying some of the worst
content on the Internet in pursuit of advertising
dollars are actually building the foundation that brought us
Donald Trump in the first place.
And so even if we never hear his name again, we’re not
to address these concerns that are undermining democracy
and human rights and civil rights
until we get those policies in place, get that oversight
in place of these companies, notjust Facebook but all
of these surveillance companies — Amazon, Google
and YouTube as well.
Facebook is saying, this isn’t a perfect answer
and they introduced this oversight board
in the absence of any government regulation.
They said it is a fairly unprecedented
move they took to try to get some consistency in
these decisions.
They themselves admit it is not perfect but it
is better than what is out there at the moment.
What do you make of the oversight board
and how it is working?
I think the most important thing that
came out of this oversight board decision today
is the fact that Facebook refused to give the oversight
board information that they requested —
this allegedly independent oversight board — requested
information from Facebook about how its algorithms
operate and whether its algorithms were amplifying
Donald Trump’s racist and harmful content.
Facebook refused to give their own oversight
board that information.
And again to me that points to the fact that
this is not about some partisan bickering back and forth
about whether this content should be
up or down, this is a broader problem, a problem of this
business model and one that can only be addressed
through robust anti—trust enforcement,
privacy legislation and more.
Our thanks to Even Greerfor us there.
In Atlanta in the United States, a sacked white police
officer is to get his job back despite facing murder charges
for fatally shooting a Black man lastJune.
Rayshard Brooks was shot outside a restaurant
by Garrett Rolfe — who faces life in prison
or the death penalty if convicted.
He lost his job after the shooting, but a police
oversight board has ruled that his dismissal did not
follow due process.
To Myanmar now.
With the military still in control of the country —
the main civilian opposition has now formed its own
armed forces unit.
The National Unity Government says it created a quote
"people’s defence force" — to protect civilians
from military attacks.
Our Southeast Asia correspondent, Jonathan Head
gave us this update.
There are lots of people willing to fight.
There are many groups involved in the civilian opposition
in the cities who have now taken up basic weapons,
and we are beginning to see some groups in places
like Chin State way out on the border with India.
We’ve seen a number of soldiers killed there, and the ethnic
insurgent groups that have been fighting for years
on the borders who have formally pledged their support
to this national unity government, which in return
says it will create a federal system including properly
representing them for the first time and incorporating those
insurgents into what they say will be a federal army.
They say this People’s Defence Force is the first
step in that.
There’s also a great deal of frustration about how little
international support there has been for a different
outcome in Myanmar.
The National Unity Government was formed in the hope they’d
get recognition internationally as a far more legitimate
government than the military men who seized power
back in February.
Seized power remember from a government that had just
been re—elected by a landslide.
That hasn’t been forthcoming and I suspect in some ways this
declaration of an armed wing of what has to now been
in unarmed movement is also a warning shot to the outside
world saying we have no choice, we will have to start arming
to defend ourselves and to fight against the dominance
of the military because nobody else is helping us.
It does raise the risks of a much wider conflict
in Myanmar and there are lots of fears that is where
Myanmar is heading.
All of their neighbours, particularly Thailand
where they have the longest border, big economic ties,
and China most critically, and India, all of the bordering
states and Southeast Asia — this is a warning sign to them
as well, take it more seriously and take more action to resolve
this conflict otherwise it must inevitably descend into a much
more serious war.
Our thanks to Jonathan there.
Now, to an extremely rare case that has generated huge
interest on social media.
A 25—year—old Malian woman has given birth to nine
babies at once.
Two more than doctors had detected during scans.
Courtney Bembridge has the details.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
And nine.
Halima Cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
The babies are all well and, if there are no complications,
the family will set a new world record.
Nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
Doctors in Mali were worried, so the government intervened
and the mother was flown to Morocco.
TRANSLATION: She was 25 weeks pregnant so we tried to make
the pregnancy go longer until she reached 30 weeks.
She gave birth eventually with the help of a
cesarean operation.
We were surprised to find nine babies.
Nadya Suleman came to international attention
when she had octuplets in 2009, and she holds the current world
record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
Courtney Bembridge, BBC News.
One unexpected consequence of the coronavirus pandemic
was a dramatic reduction in the poaching of wild rhinos.
The figure fell by around a third last year —
the lowest level in nearly a decade.
But — as lockdown restrictions ease —
that number is creeping up again.
Rangers in South Africa are going to extreme measures
to tackle the problem.
Tim Allman reports.
Tim Allman reports.
BY
By air... And by land, the battle against the coaches
battle against the coaches rages on. Here at this nature
rages on. Here at this nature reserve they hunt down and
reserve they hunt down and sedate a giant rhino. What they
sedate a giant rhino. what they do next may
sedate a giant rhino. What they do next may strike you as
do next may strike you as rather gruesome. We have
rather gruesome. We have decided to the haunt the entire
decided to the haunt the entire population because of our high
population because of our high level of threat — de—horn,
level of threat - de-horn, we’re going
level of threat — de—horn, we’re going to de—horn every
we’re going to de-horn every rhino
we’re going to de—horn every rhino and even rhinos with
rhino and even rhinos with calves. De—horning can be
calves. De—horning can be controversial, critics say it
controversial, critis say it ran
controversial, critics say it can leave the animals
can leave the animals defenceless. It is designed to
defencelass. It is designed to deter
defenceless. It is designed to deter poachers. Why hunt a
deter poachers. why hunt a rhino
deter poachers. Why hunt a rhino for its horn when it has
rhino for its horn when it has already been removed. A lot say
already been removed. A lot say it is a relatively short term
it is a relatively short term fix and the horns do eventually
fix and the horns do eventually grow back but something needs
grow back but something needs to be done. Rhino numbers in
to be done. Rhino numbers in this area fell by two—thirds
this area fell by two—thirds between 2008 and 2019.
between 2008 and 2019. Lockdowns load that decline but
Lockdowns load that decline but then the lockdown was eased.
then the lockdown was eased. Since November, December, last
Since November, December, last year and into 2021, this
year and into 2021, this landscape and in particular
landscape and in particular Kruger National park has been
Kruger National park has been experiencing serious numbers of
experiencing serious numbers of rain approaching incidents.
rain approaching incidents. South Africa is at the centre
South Africa is at the centre of a poaching crisis. Local
of a poaching crisis. Local hunters supplying a lucrative
hunters supplying a lucrative international trade. This may
international trade. This may seem like a cruel solution but
seem like a cmel solution but the
seem like a cruel solution but the poachers will simply let
the poachers will simply let these rhinos die.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @ LVaughanJones.
ﬂ
lam
I am Lewis Vaughan—Jones and
I am Lewis Vaughan-limes and this is
I am Lewis Vaughan—Jones and this is BBC News. Goodbye.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
in a future of peace and freedom.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
The US will support a plan to remove patent protections
on Covid vaccines.
The move would make it easier for more companies to produce
vaccines, making them more widely available
for developing countries.
The World Health Organization calls it "a monumental moment"
in the fight against Covid—19.
Donald Trump’s ban from Facebook and Instagram has been
upheld by Facebook’s Oversight Board.
The social media giant ruled the outgoing President had
broken its standards and rules by appearing to sympathise
with the Capitol building attackers, while continuing
to falsely insist he won the election.
The UK is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to the island ofJersey — to monitor the situation
in the English Channel — after the French government
threatened to cut off power supplies to the Channel Island,
The probation officer who was in charge of the man
who carried out the fatal attacks at Fishmongers’ Hall
in London has told an inquest that he had no indication
he was being deceived by Usman Khan.
But he admitted there had been some prison intelligence that
Khan might return to ‘his old ways’.
Daniel Sandford has more.
The disastrous consequences of allowing a recently
released, high—risk convicted terrorist travel
alone to London.
The battle on London Bridge, with Usman Khan, who had just
stabbed two people to death.
Saskia Jones and Jack Merritt had been involved
with Learning Together, a prison education
organisation whose events Khan had been attending.
Khan had been a difficult prisoner,
involved in violence against other
inmates and radicalisation.
He had improved his behaviour but there was intelligence
suggesting that he might go back
to his old ways.
The inquests into the deaths of Saskia Jones and Jack Merritt
have heard that it was Usman Khan’s
probation officer, Ken Skelton, who authorised his trip
to the Learning Together event.
But today, he insisted that he didn’t make
that decision alone.
He said that a mapper panel, a panel of experts responsible
for public protection, had backed the decision.
Ken Skelton told the jury that although there is no written
record of the mapper experts positively
agreeing to the trip, they had been aware
of it and had not objected.
"They must have said he can go," he explained,
"that decision would not have been
made alone by me."
Either way, Khan did travelm by himself,
on a train to the capital, despite what Saskia Jones’s
family’s lawyer said today was a remarkable
number of red flags waving.
Daniel Sandford, BBC News.
Now on BBC News:
The Travel Show.
Coming up on the show — Getting up close to an American
icon in New York.
Now for the the piece de resistance.
The original torch.
Wow!
Cooking up a Michelin star takeaway in Singapore.
So this is the chef extraordinaire, Hawker—Chan.
And I’m on the hunt for London’s fast—disappearing
red phone boxes.
If you say "London", it is the telephone —
it’s the red telephone box.
Hello and welcome to The Travel Show with me,
Christa Larwood, still here at home in London.
But as you can see, some things are starting to return
to normal and fingers crossed we will be back out
on the road sometime soon.
Until then, this week, let’s take a look at some
of our favourite trips to the world’s most vibrant
cities here on the show.
Well, New York is always one of our favourite attractions.
Maybe it’s the sheer noise, bustle and knowledge that,
under normal circumstances, it really does feel like the city
that never sleeps.
And back in 2019, Lucy was lucky enough to be given
a behind—the—scenes look at one of the city’s newest
and perhaps most iconic attractions.
I was up at Sam to catch the staff ferry — the very
first boat of the day to leave for Liberty Island,
hours before the arrival of the public.
Wow!
I’ve never seen the statute this close before.
Definitely worth the ungodly wake—up call.
Until recently, visitors that wanted to learn more
about the statue’s history were directed to an exhibit
in its base.
But the space was so limited, only a few people actually got
to see it.
That’s all set to change with the opening of the new museum.
The museum takes people all the way back to
the statue’s creation.
It was designed by Frederic August Bartholdi, who built it
in his Paris workshop.
The statue marked 100 years since the Declaration
of Independence and the historic alliance
between America and France.
In 1885, it was shipped in 350 individual pieces over
to New York, where it was reassembled and unveiled
to the American public the next year.
Now for the the piece de resistance, the original torch.
The torch!
The original torch!
Wow!
It stood up there from 1886 until 1984.
The original torch had been changed from Bartholdi’s design
to include a glass—paneled flame that could be
lit up night.
In the 1980s, it was removed and replaced during a massive
restoration of the statue.
Talk to me about how difficult it was to get
the torch in here.
Well, it — I didn’t have to do it!
BOTH CHUCKLE.
But it was a — it was quite a task.
Yeah.
People worked for about two weeks from 3:00
in the afternoon till 3:00 at night and they had this
carrier that they laid — they laid the face on its back,
and then put the torch on it.
We had not put in all the glass here so that it could lift
quite nicely into its position, and it all worked quite well.
And here it is!
Martin and his team have been in charge of conserving
the torch and cleaning it up.
Well, today is the last day.
It’s sort of the clean down from the top down and so,
as they’re finishing up the lighting fixtures inside,
myjob is then the final clean down of everything
that falls down.
You’re one of the last people who get to be
here before it’s off...
I do feel very honoured.
Yeah.
It’s so iconic and — and you think about its history
and how it stood for freedom and for liberty to people
all over the world, it really is a remarkable piece of work.
Lucy getting a close—up look at Lady Liberty back in 2019.
Now, for many travellers, one of the benefits of exploring
the world is getting the chance to try all sorts
of local cuisine.
Back in 2016, Henry visited Singapore to meet a man whose
street food earned him a Michelin star.
This is Singapore’s largest hawker markets in the heart
of Chinatown, and it’s rampacked with stalls
selling traditional dishes.
One stall in particular is causing quite a stir.
This queue is absolutely humongous, full of all sorts
of people from Singapore, from around the world,
there’s a lot of tourists here.
And you’d imagine it for some sort of concert but in fact,
it’s for that hawker stall over there.
It’s one of two recipients here in Singapore who actually
achieved a Michelin star, so I’m going to meet the chef.
Hawker Chan!
Hi!
So this is the chef extraordinaire Hawker Chan,
and he’s been doing this for over 30 years, right?
Yeah.
Tiga puluh tahun?
Yeah.
Wow!
The stall has become famous for serving the world’s
cheapest Michelin starred meal.
We’re a well—oiled machine here, but I’m feeling
the pressure.
So one, one sauce here?
One portion costs less than US$2.
But the waits can be up to three hours.
0h!
So the rice!
it’s boiling.
That was pretty good!
It’s hoped the star award might mean more young people consider
a career in the street markets.
Hawker expert Dr Tay explans how there are fears
the tradition might die out.
Most of the hawkers, they want — they don’t their kids to do
what they’re doing because it’s — it’s hard work, it’s hot,
long hours, and if you sell any of the hawker food for more
than $3 or $4, people will start to question.
50 three or four bucks!
We have to change the perception of hawker food
as being cheap.
Wow, so this is like a full one—woman operation then?
0h, it’sjust me in the morning, yeah.
Just you in the morning?
Just me in the morning.
The places like this will actually encourage more
youngsters to actually start a business in maybe a little
bit better environment.
It’s not a traditional hawker centre, it is more rowdy.
Like, I invent my logo to suit this place because it is more
like hipster area.
It’s still hot and hard work, but it’s hoped these new,
more contemporary surroundings will encourage the next
generation of Singaporeans to keep creating some
of the best street food in the world.
Henry there helping, hopefully not hindering,
Hawker Chan to keep his Michelin star, back in 2016.
Well, do stay with us, because coming up on the show —
Wejump on board a magical bus in Karachi.
I’ll just say that there’s just so much more to Karachi
than we know.
And I go in search of London’s disappearing red phone boxes.
So don’t go away.
Now, Karachi is Pakistan’s biggest city and almost 50
million people call it home.
But it has had something of a reputation for not
being the easiest, or may be safest place
for tourists to explore.
But back in 2017 Ben Zand went there to meet a group of people
working to change that.
I want to get a taste of Karachi, and when you think
of a tour you usually think of a friendly tour guide,
some foreigners, a casual stroll around the city.
But in Karachi it is much different.
It is done on one of these things.
This is the Super Savari Express.
In a city linked more with bombs and guns
than tourist trips, the Super Savari seems
a safe choice.
But this is a unique kind of tour bus, created to change
the image of Karachi not only locally but also
around the world.
Main aim — to help Karachi’s population reconnect
with their city, and help the rich meet the city’s
poorest members.
In its early days, each tour will come with an armed guard,
but as the situation has improved, it is nowjust this
big, beautiful bus.
I love this bus, it’s incredible.
Don’t we all?
What is the history of it?
You see them everywhere in Karachi.
Well, you know, the concept works on the lines of this
actually being a representation of the brides of the guys
who drive them.
Obviously, you can climb on the roof, and who doesn’t
want to climb on the roof of a bus?
Why do you think a city like Karachi needs something
like this?
There has been a disconnect between educated classes
in Karachi and the general population.
And do you do this because you think Karachi is misrepresented
and it has a reputation it doesn’t deserve?
I will just say that there is so much more to Karachi
than we know.
There is something special about this mosque that I have
to show you.
The tour takes visitors around the city in an attempt
to show its diversity.
You visit mosques, Hindu temples, churches, Karachi’s
version of the Big Ben, and then it is time for food.
Sorry.
I’m going to ruin your tea party.
What is this?
This guy says traditional Pakistani breakfast.
Yes, a traditional Pakistani breakfast is essentially
you get chai and a type of an omelette, essentially
most things in Pakistan are made spicy, so the same
with omelettes.
I have noticed, my stomach noticed that a few days ago.
You dip some of that in chai.
You actually dip it in the tea?
Yeah.
I am just ruining your tea.
I have got soggy pieces of dough in your tea.
Our next stop.
So this is Lyari, widely regarded as the most dangerous
area of Karachi.
So here in Lyari there is only one sport people care about,
and that is football.
There’s over 175 registered clubs, and that’s because these
guys, like everybody else, absolutely love it.
Anywhere you look you see Man United tops, Real Madrid
tops and hopefully some Liverpool tops, and I am
here to find out a bit more about why that is the case.
This is our Lyari centre, in Lyari, a centre of
excellence, where we have approximately 100 kids that
come across to train four or five times a week.
We give them free football coaching, we give them life
skills, sessions on top of it.
So I have been asked to have a game with these kids,
who look pretty good.
Because I am wearing 3 Liverpool top, everybody
thinks I play for Liverpool.
A huge crowd has gathered.
Yeah, look forward to me embarrassing myself
in front of everybody.
Here we go.
After eyeing up the opposition, we began.
Sand and heat, it is not a good combination.
Soon, though, we were losing by two goals.
Me and my new friend Michelle realised it was our moment and,
after generously being awarded a free kick, I curled it
into the corner.
Then two penalties later, we had won the game.
After celebrating with my team, adequately named Benjamin’s
Liverpool Warriors, I spoke to Michelle
about football here.
She runs the local women’s team and is trying to get more women
involved in football and, amazingly enough, it turned out
I had just witnessed herfirst ever game on this pitch.
You were a little bit nervous about playing
because you are like the only girl here.
Is this the first time you have played here?
It is the first time I have played here without any other
girls, and if you were to look around, and there’s a game
going on there, and there’s an academy here, I think I am
the only female in this stadium right now.
Sometimes we go into an area where the culture is just
extremely male—dominated, and they don’t want
females to play.
There are a hundred boys and 35 giris. Two years
There are a hundred boys and 35 girls. Two years ago, there
giris. Two years ago, there were
girls. Two years ago, there were zero.
And football has picked up in areas that have
been otherwise neglected.
These guys often have to come up with their own recreation,
solving their own problems, and football is kind
of inherent to the game, solving your own problems.
0h!
Ben there on—board what must be one of the world’s most
colourful tour buses back in 2017.
If you cast your mind back to a time when travel wasn’t
quite as difficult as it is now, there was still
the eternal dilemma, what to do with a lengthy airport layover?
Well, we set Ade the challenge back in 2017, how much
could he fit into a six hour stopover in Rome?
So, you find yourself stuck here at Leonardo da
Vinci—Fiumicino Airport.
This is one of the largest in Italy and it is the essential
hub for its national airline.
Unfortunately, Rome is ranked as one of the most delayed
airports in the world.
So you’re probably going to find yourself with a bit
of time in your hands.
I’ve decided to make it a bit more interesting and set myself
a challenge to see Rome in under six hours.
Hello!
How are you?
Nice to meet you.
Bongiorno.
Where are we going first?
I’ve chosen a bespoke tour and specifically requested five
sites to visit during my whistlestop tour.
I want to see the Colosseum, the Circus Maximus,
the Palatine Hill, the Mouth of Truth, and of course
the Trevi Fountain.
My first proper stop here is to go and see
the Circus Maximus.
Older than the Colosseum, and with a capacity of hundreds
of thousands of people, it was at the heart of Rome’s
lavish and brutal public entertainment — the gladiators,
to you and me.
This was the place for the spectators,
the excavation over there.
The spectators set all around.
And resting just above the site is the Palatine Hill,
which is one of the most ancient parts of the city.
Next stop is a little hidden gem.
It is the Mouth of Truth.
If you’re a liar, and you put your hand inside the mouth,
your hand will be cut.
Every time I see the Trevi Fountain it always takes my
breath away because it’s so beautiful.
And I’d say this is definitely one of the most must—see
monuments in Rome.
One of the downsides of a tour like this is that there is no
real time to stop and really enjoy the sights,
because of the tight schedule.
But they give you a great taste of what’s on offer.
Who knows?
Maybe one day I’ll be back to explore Rome
at a more leisurely pace.
Ade their cramming in the ancient Roman sites
back in 2017.
To finish off this week we are in my adopted home town
of London, famous of course for its white red buses
and until relatively recently, its red phone boxes.
But since the arrival of these things, fewer and fewer people
have been using the public phones.
So back in 2019, I reported on a programme to remove those
iconic red boxes from London’s streets.
After all, it is only tourists that would miss them, right?
The red phone box is synonymous with London.
When they were first introduced in the 19205,
they gave many poorer Londoners access to the phone
for the very first time, and after countless appearances
in films, TV shows and music videos, they became something
of an icon both here and around the world.
You say London, it is the red telephone box.
The first thing that comes into my mind when I think
of Britain, was either the Queen or the red
phone booth.
Although as more people got access to their own phone
at home, the numbers of actual cells being made
from them dropped.
Now, I can remember when I first came here 20 years
ago, using a phone box was a really big event,
it was like, "I have arrived in London."
And I probably took several dozen selfies in one
of these things.
These days it is just clear it isn’t being used much.
And frankly it isn’t the nicest place to be.
The smell is not ideal, either.
I might get out of here.
Even though a lot of these phone boxes aren’t in the best
shape now, there is a group of Londoners who still take
pride in them, and the postcard image they portray.
I thinkjust because phone boxes are British icons,
for them to look scruffy in the photos that are going
back around the world with tourists after their holidays,
I didn’t like that idea.
So I thought, why not clean them up?
It’s only polite.
Seeing one in a completely sorry state was almost
like seeing an elderly relative in distress or something.
We like to help Emily, we think it is a worthy cause
and we are loyal fans.
It looks nice when they are all scrubbed up.
Emily and her band of volunteers regularly
spend their spare time sprucing up phone boxes
like these for sightseers.
But it looks like even their valiant efforts might not
be enough to save them.
They are difficult to keep clean, and they’re not very
easy for people with disabilities to use,
and we are obliged to have a quite high percentage
of payphones which can be used by people with disabilities.
So the question is, what’s going to happen to the old red
phone boxes we’ve all come to know and love?
Some have been put up for sale, and some are being offered
to local communities to turn into things
like public libraries.
Others are already being rented out to businesses who see
the beauty in keeping things small — like Fouad,
who now repairs phones inside a phone box.
I am not claustrophobic at all.
If you work in an iconic place you are iconic too.
Other businesses that have cropped up include cafes,
coffee bars, and souvenir shops, all crammed inside
a square metre of floor space.
If you think of all the conversations these four
walls must have overheard, declarations of love,
cries of emergency or whispers of espionage.
These walls have heard it all, every type of conversation.
And I think it is sad to see they are new empty.
Sadly that is all we have got time for on this week’s
programme but I hope we have given you enough inspiration
to keep going until we can all travel again.
Coming up next week: it is the turn of technology
in the final part of our series in which Ade looks at some
of the issues to shape travel as we get back out on the road.
So dojoin us then if you can.
In the meantime you can catch up with more of our recent
programmes on BBC iPlayer and we are on social media
in all the usual places.
Until next time from me and all the Travel Show
team, it’s goodbye.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
Welcome to BBC News — I’m Lewis Vaughanjones.
Our top stories:
A monumental moment in the fight against Covid —
the United States backs removing intellectual property
protections for vaccines.
ruling that the former President broke its rules.
The UK is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to monitor a planned blockade ofJersey’s main port.
It’s the latest escalation with France over post—Brexit
fishing rights.
The entire Indian delegation at the G7 summit
The entire Indian
in London, is self—isolating after two members test
positive for Coronavius.
The entire Indian delegation at the G7 summit
in London, is self—isolating after two members test
positive for coronavius.
positive for coronavius.
Expecting seven babies at once would be enough
but a woman from Mali had two surprises, and is now
a mother of nine.
Welcome to our viewers in the UK and around the globe.
After increased pressure — the Biden administration says
it supports removing patent protections for
Covid—19 vaccines.
The move aims to make it easier to ramp up production
of vaccines and make them more widely available
for poorer countries.
US Trade Representative Katherine Tie said in
Well this was welcomed by the Director—General
of the World Health Organization, who said this
was "a monumental moment in the fight against COVID—19."
A vaccine patent waiver makes it harder for vaccine
manufacturers to make money out of their products.
Shares in a number of the companies tumbled
on the news.
The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
and Associations says the plan is a red herring when it comes
to improving the distribution of vaccines.
The decision by the US administration is
disappointing, but it doesn’t change that it’s a wrong
answer to complex problem.
It’s a wrong but simple answer to a complex problem
because it disrupts, it distracts from
tackling the real challenges, which are trade barriers,
including from the US, disrupting supply chains.
It prevents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks
in the supply chain, the scarcity of raw materials,
where you really need full partnership.
And it also prevents a fast move because what we need now,
looking at the dramatic situation in India,
is rich countries starting rapidly
to share their doses with poor countries.
It is unfair to see that we have countries
where 20—year—old healthy young people vaccinated,
and most of Africa, basically, doesn’t get
any vaccine now that India is in such a dramatic situation.
Professor George Contreras, is a professor
of Law at the University of Utah and says while addressing
intellectual property rights is important,
it’s only one piece of the puzzle.
It’s a really surprising and unprecedented move
by the US Department of State and the US government,
which has usually been quite protective of
intellectual property rights.
OK, so where does this leave us?
What are the implications of it?
You know, as many have said, this is a necessary but not
sufficient step to distributing a Covid vaccine
on a worldwide basis.
Intellectual property rights are there,
they’re important, but there are a lot of other pieces
to the puzzle, including supply and
manufacturing, regulatory approval, safety and so
Facebook says it will continue to stop
Donald Trump from directly using its platforms.
The social media giant’s new Oversight Board ruled
the former President had broken its standards and rules
by appearing to sympathise with January’s attack on the US
Capitol.
But the Oversight Board told Facebook to re—consider
whether the ban should be indefinite.
James Clayton has more.
Trump’s use of social media is almost impossible
to disentangle with Trumpism itself.
It was his way of communicating directly with Americans,
bypassing the mainstream media that he so loathed.
But did he also use that platform to radicalise?
responsible for these deadly riots?
Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg thought Trump’s posts
could lead to further violence and suspended Donald Trump
indefinitely the day after the riots.
Twitter went one step further, and banned Mr Trump forever.
He’ll never be allowed back onto that platform.
However, Facebook asked its decision to be reviewed
by its newly formed oversight board, which it
claims is independent.
It’s designed to make difficult moderation decisions,
and their decision today was complex.
It said that the oversight board has upheld
Facebook’s decision to suspend Mr Trump’s access
to post content on Facebook and Instagram.
However, it’s also said that Facebook couldn’t ban
Trump indefinitely.
The company must reassess this penalty,
it said, within six months of the decision.
Thejudgment does leave a way back for Trump back
on Facebook, but for now, the door is firmly closed.
And that is a huge problem for Donald Trump
and his hopes of a political return.
In a statement, the former president lashed out,
saying:
Facebook has been essential to Mr Trump.
His campaign used it to raise money and micro—target voerts.
He spent more than $200 million in 2020
between his campaign and his PAC on his Facebook
advertising,
so it’s notjust an opinion that
Facebook was an essential part of this political power.
It was actually one of the few places
where he was putting his money where his mouth was.
Mr Trump yesterday released his own
communications platform,
but it’s really no replacement for
being on Twitter or Facebook.
At the click of a button, Mr Trump could beam himself
onto the computers and phones of tens of millions
of Americans.
That button has now gone, perhaps forever.
James Clayton, BBC News.
Alan Rusbridger is a member of Facebook’s
Oversight Board and we asked him why no clear decision
was made on whether Donald Trump can ever return
to Facebook.
I think it was a clear answer.
I think that we said they were both right and wrong,
they were right to take the stuff down, they were right
to stop him because he was a clear and present danger
at a time of great volatility in the United States,
but it was wrong then to go on and say, well,
you are banned indefinitely because indefinitely is not
a word that appears anywhere on Facebook’s own rulebook,
and it is an arbitrary thing, and so we’ve just gone back
and said, you know, "Well done forgetting the original
decision right, but can
you think more carefully about defining what what this
period of ban is, and why?"
The Israeli President has asked Yair Lapid,
the leader of a centrist party to try and form
a coalition government.
It could mean an end to 12 years in power
for Benjamin Netanyahu — who wasn’t able to form
a coalition of his own after the elections in March.
Our correspondent in Jerusalem Yolande Knell has
the latest.
The president spent the day talking to members
of the different political parties
here and then he announced his decision in a live broadcast
a short time ago saying he had asked Yair Lapid,
a centrist politician, former finance
minister — before his time in politics he was a television
anchor.
He said he had the backing of 56 of the 120 members
of the Israeli parliament so, obviously, still short
of a majority but he thought that he had the best
chance of being able to form a government that had support
of Parliament despite there still
being difficulties, the president said.
So now Mr Lapid will enter into political
wrangling with many of the other parties that had
lined up to oppose Benjamin Netanyahu
Happy to
returning to another term in office.
But what will be a real challenge for him is that those
parties are from across the political spectrum
in Israel from left to right so they have
ideological differences between them that he will have
to bridge.
Britain is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to the island ofJersey, in the English Channel,
to monitor the situation after a row erupted with France
over post—Brexit fishing rights.
The French government threatened to cut off power
supplies to the Channel Island in a dispute over new
a licensing system for French fishing vessels.
ButJersey’s government says a more imminent danger
is 3 blockade by fishing boats of St Helier —
the island’s main entry point for goods.
Our correspondent Robert Hall has the latest
from the island.
News that those vessels were being deployed followed
a phone call to theJersey government
from Number 10, from BorisJohnson who expressed his
unwavering support forJersey’s position.
To be fair, Jersey politicians have been trying
hard the past few days to calm things down ahead of a protest
of which more in a moment.
How did we get here?
French fishermen and Channel Islands
fishermen have traditionally worked together well most
of the time but that is starting
to go downhill after Brexit whenJersey began to
re—establish its territorial waters.
On the weekend it
also began to issue licenses to French boats.
Those licenses cover boats that are regularly
here, they cover what they can catch, the amount of time
that they are in Jersey waters and
there was almost immediate pushback from the French
communities along the Normandy coast who said, look,
this is untenable.
We have not had enough time, there is detail
here which is unacceptable and unworkable.
And at a meeting a couple of days ago they got
together with other fishing ports and said we’re
going to have to do something here.
We are going to stop Jersey boats
from landing, will protest inJersey — that looks like it
will go ahead, and that we had a speech in the French
Parliament yesterday from the Maritime
minister saying that we may use Jersey’s supply from our grid
as a negotiating tool.
As I speak, around 70 boats are on
their way toJersey, they will anchor outside
St Helier and they may be protesting and
whether the presence of the Royal Navy will help
or hinder we shall see in the coming days.
The entire Indian delegation to the G7 summit
of leading economies in London is self—isolating after two
members tested positive for Covid—19.
The news came as Foreign ministers re—convened
for the last day of the talks.
Our Diplomatic Correspondent James Landale reports.
Borisjohnson, dropping by the G7
talks this afternoon, determined to show confidence
in an international meeting hit by a Covid scare,
determined to show that face—to—face
diplomacy is possible in a pandemic.
I had a very good meeting with Secretary Blinken.
India’s Foreign Minister, 3 guest at the talks,
has spent the last few days in London meeting counterparts
from the United States and South Africa, even
the Home Secretary, Priti Patel.
But then this morning, this.
In a tweet, he said that he was made
aware yesterday evening of his exposure to possible
Covid positive cases.
"As a measure of abundant caution,
I decided to conduct my engagements
in the virtual mode."
India has suffered grievously in recent weeks, and it appears
two junior officials may have travelled while infected.
The Foreign Office has imposed tight
Covid rules at Lancaster House and the Indian delegation had
yet to attend any meetings here,
but the cases were picked up by mandatory daily tests.
The Foreign Secretary said the problem had been managed
and it was vital for essential diplomacy to continue.
We’ve done this in a very secure way
but we’ve got to get governments together,
leaders together and countries together if we’re going
to solve what is clearly notjust a global
pandemic but a global plan for recovery.
So, today, the Indian ministerjoined the meeting
in the now traditional way.
Officials say the discovery of these
two cases shows the effectiveness
of the tight regulations they put in place.
But it will surely raise questions
about whether it’s too early for face—to—face diplomacy
like this and whether future, planned
international meetings should go
ahead in person as planned.
As it happened, the pandemic was top of today’s agenda.
Ministers agreed to produce more
vaccines, share them more fairly,
but there was no promise to spend
James Landale, BBC News.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
A look at how rangers in South Africa are going
to extreme measures to tackle the problem of Rhino poaching.
I, Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful
to the Republic of South Africa.
After six years of construction and numerous delays,
the Channel Tunnel has been formally opened by the Queen
and President Mitterand.
The tunnel is not yet ready for passengers
and freight services to begin.
For centuries, Christianity and Islam struggled for supremacy.
Now the Pope’s visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
Roger Bannister became the first man in the world
to run a mile in underfour minutes.
Memories of victory as the VE celebrations
reach their climax.
This night is dedicated to everyone who believes
in a future of peace and freedom.
This is BBC News.
The latest headlines:
The United States backs an initiative to waive
intellectual property protections for coronavirus
vaccines.
Facebook upholds its suspension of Donald Trump,
ruling that the former President broke its rules.
To Myanmar now.
With the military still in control of the country,
the main civilian opposition has now formed its own
armed forces unit.
The National Unity Government says it created a, quote,
"people’s defence force" to protect civilians
from military attacks.
Our Southeast Asia correspondent, Jonathan Head
gave us this update.
There are lots of people willing to fight.
There are many groups involved in the civilian opposition
in the cities who have now taken up basic weapons,
and we are beginning to see some groups in places
like Chin State way out on the border with India.
We’ve seen a number of soldiers killed there, and the ethnic
insurgent groups that have been fighting for years
on the borders who have formally pledged their support
to this national unity government, which in return
says it will create a federal system including properly
representing them for the first time and incorporating those
insurgents into what they say will be a federal army.
They say this People’s Defence Force is the first
step in that.
There’s also a great deal of frustration about how little
international support there has been for a different
outcome in Myanmar.
The National Unity Government was formed in the hope they’d
get recognition internationally as a far more legitimate
government than the military men who seized power
back in February.
Seized power remember from a government that had just
been re—elected by a landslide.
That hasn’t been forthcoming and I suspect in some ways this
declaration of an armed wing of what has to now been
in unarmed movement is also a warning shot to the outside
world saying we have no choice, we will have to start arming
to defend ourselves and to fight against the dominance
of the military because nobody else is helping us.
It does raise the risks of a much wider conflict
in Myanmar and there are lots of fears that is where
Myanmar is heading.
All of their neighbours, particularly Thailand
where they have the longest border, big economic ties,
and China most critically, and India, all of the bordering
states and Southeast Asia — this is a warning sign to them
as well, take it more seriously and take more action to resolve
this conflict otherwise it must inevitably descend into a much
more serious war.
Our thanks to Jonathan there.
Next to the United States.
29 students abducted by gunmen in March from a forestry
college in Nigeria have been released.
The students were brought by police to a police station
in the north—western city of Kaduna.
Reports say a ransom was paid to the kidnappers.
Now, to an extremely rare pregnancy, and a possible world
record.
A 25—year—old woman from Mali has given birth to nine
babies at once — two more than she expected.
Courtney Bembridge has the details.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
And nine.
Halima Cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
The babies are all well
and, if there are no complications,
the family will set a new world record.
TRANSLATION: This did not surprise me because I
surprise me because I am a believer.
Nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
Doctors in Mali were worried, so the government intervened
and the mother was flown to Morocco.
TRANSLATION: She was 25 weeks pregnant so we
tried to make the pregnancy go longer
until she reached 30 weeks.
She gave birth eventually
with the help of a cesarean operation.
We were surprised to find nine babies.
Nadya Suleman came to international attention
when she had octuplets in 2009,
and she holds the current world
record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
Courtney Bembridge, BBC News.
Dr Kecia Gaither is director of Maternal—Foetal
Medicine for New York City health and hospitals.
Thank you so much for coming on the programme. Thank you for
the programme. Thank you for inviting me. This is absolutely
inviting me. This is absolutely extraordinary. Wonderful of
extraordinary. Wonderful of course, congratulations to the
course, congratulations to the new and no doubt exhausted
new and no doubt exhausted mother, but to put it in
mother, but to put it in perspective, how unusual is
perspective, how unusual is this? Exceedingly unusual,
this? Exceedingly unusual, exceedingly. Nine... I
this? Exceedingly unusual, exceedingly. Nine... Idon’t
exceedingly. Nine... Idon’t quite know, I can’t get my head
quite know, I can’t get my head around that number, but we
around that number, but we heard other examples of age and
heard other examples of age and things like that, how unusual
things like that, how unusual is it, once we are up past four
is it, once we are up past four and five, how unusual is it up
and five, how unusual is it up there? This is exceedingly
there? This is exceedingly exceedingly rare, probably less
exceedingly rare, probably less than one in a number of
than one in a number of millions. And the question that
millions. And the question that I have is was theirs natural or
I have is was theirs natural or was this IVF? Ride, I see,
I have is was theirs natural or was this IVF? Ride, Isee, I
was this IVF? Ride, Isee, I cannot answer that, but what
rannot answer that, but what about
cannot answer that, but what about the risks? For a space in
about the risks? For a space in a woman’s body that is meant
a woman’s body that is meant for one and sometimes two, A9,
for one and sometimes two, 49, there
for one and sometimes two, A9, there must be a huge amount of
there must be a huge amount of risk. It was a great risk to
risk. It was a great risk to her body. There is an increased
her body. There is an increased risk certainly of preterm
risk certainly of preterm delivery, certainly of
delivery, certainly of pre—eclampsia, respiratory
pre-edampsia, respiratory issues,
pre—eclampsia, respiratory issues, I’m sure the lower
issues, I’m sure the lower extremities were swollen from
extremities were swollen from that huge uterus impeding the
that huge utems impeding the blood
that huge uterus impeding the blood flow coming back from her
blood ﬂow coming back from her legs, so I’m
blood flow coming back from her legs, so I’m sure that there
legs, so I’m sure that there were a lot of issues going on
were a lot of issues going on with her during the pregnancy.
with her during the pregnancy. And the reports are that the
And the reports are that the first scans showed seven, so
first scans showed seven, so they were expecting seven, and
they were expecting seven, and then two extra came out, and
then two extra came out, and that just shows you
then two extra came out, and thatjust shows you how
thatjust shows you how difficult it is for scanning in
difficult it is for scanning in a situation like this? It all
a situation like this? It all depends on how far along she
depends on how far along she was when she had her
was when she had her ultrasound. If it was in the
ultrasound. If it was in the first trimester then it would
first trimester then it would have been more easier to see
have been more easier to see how many babies there were as
how many babies there were as opposed to when they get
opposed to when they get further along and everybody is
further along and everybody is crowded in there and you can’t
crowded in there and you can’t see, so it depends on how far
see, so it depends on how far along she was when she had a
along she was when she had a first ultrasound. What about
first ultrasound. what about you and
first ultrasound. What about you and your experience? What
you and your experience? what is the
you and your experience? What is the most you have ever
is the most you have ever delivered? Four. And how was
delivered? Four. And how was that? A couple of quads, it’s
that? A couple of quads, it’s fine. It may not be fined for
fine. It may not be fined for the mother, but it’s a very
the mother, but it’s a very exciting time, certainly
exciting time, certainly everything has to be organised,
everything has to be organised, multiple people in the
multiple people in the operating room, a lot of action
operating room, a lot of action going on, and you have to be
going on, and you have to be prepared for it because the
prepared for it because the mean thing that you consider
mean thing that you consider yourself whether time
yourself whether time of delivery is bleeding, post
delivery is bleeding, post parting bleeding because that
parting bleeding because that uterus has been overly
uterus has been overly distended, it’s hard for it to
distended, it’s hard for it to contract our normal e—commerce
contract our normal e-commerce that’s the
contract our normal e—commerce that’s the main thing you have
that’s the main thing you have to concern yourself with.
to concern yourself with. That’s really interesting and
That’s really interesting and reports we have so far are that
reports we have so far are that things seem to be going well
things seem to be going well and we wish them all the best.
and we wish them all the best. Thank you so much for coming in
Thank you so much for coming in the programme, thank you for
the programme, thank you for coming on the programme.
To Colombia now, and anti—government protests
have entered an 8th day with demonstrators gathering
across the country.
At least 2A people, including a police officer,
have died since the protests began.
The UN is urging security forces to refrain from using
firearms.
More than 800 people have been injured in clashes
between police and demonstrators while more
than 80 people are reported as missing.
The nationwide rallies were initially against
a now—cancelled tax reform bill.
One unexpected consequence of the coronavirus
pandemic was a dramatic reduction in the poaching
of wild rhinos.
The figure fell by around a third last year —
the lowest level in nearly a decade.
But as lockdown restrictions ease,
that number is creeping up again.
Rangers in South Africa are going to extreme measures
to tackle the problem.
You may find some of the images in Tim Allman’s report
distressing.
By air, and by land, the battle against the poachers
rages on.
Here at the Balule Nature Reserve they hunt down
and sedate a giant rhino.
What they do next may strike you as rather gruesome.
We have decided to de—horn the entire
population because of our high level of threat.
We’re going to de—horn every rhino and even
rhinos with calves.
De—horning can be controversial, critics say
it can leave the animals defenceless.
It is designed to deter poachers.
Why hunt a rhino for its horn when it has
already been removed 7
Some say it is a relatively short term
fix and the horns do eventually grow back but something needs
to be done.
Rhino numbers in this area fell by two—thirds
between 2008 and 2019.
Lockdowns slowed that decline but then the lockdown
was eased.
Since November, December, last year and into 2021,
this landscape, and in particular
Kruger National Park, has been experiencing serious
numbers of rhino poaching incidents.
South Africa is at the centre of a poaching crisis.
Local hunters supplying a lucrative international
trade.
This may seem like a cruel solution but
the poachers will simply let these rhinos die.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
You can reach me on Twitter — I’m @ LVaughanJones.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
submit
This is BBC News, the headlines:
The US will support a plan to remove patent protections
on Covid vaccines.
The move would make it easier for more companies to produce
vaccines, making them more widely available
for developing countries.
The World Health Organization calls it "a monumental moment"
in the fight against COVID—19.
Donald Trump’s ban from Facebook and Instagram has
been upheld by Facebook’s Oversight Board.
The social media giant ruled the outgoing President had
broken its standards and rules by appearing to sympathise
with the Capitol building attackers.
Britain is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to the island ofJersey — to monitor the situation
in the English Channel — after the French government
threatened to cut off power supplies to the Channel Island,
over disputed post—Brexit fishing rights in the lucrative
fishing area.
The probation officer who was in charge of the man
who carried out the fatal attacks at Fishmongers’ Hall
in London has told an inquest that he had no indication
he was being deceived by Usman Khan.
But he admitted there had been some prison intelligence that
Khan might return to ‘his old ways’.
Daniel Sandford has more.
The disastrous consequences of allowing a recently
released, high—risk convicted terrorist travel
alone to London.
The battle on London Bridge, with Usman Khan, who had just
stabbed two people to death.
Saskia Jones and Jack Merritt had been involved
with Learning Together, a prison education
organisation whose events Khan had been attending.
Khan had been a difficult prisoner,
involved in violence against other
inmates and radicalisation.
He had improved his behaviour but there was intelligence
suggesting that he might go back
to his old ways.
The inquests into the deaths of Saskia Jones and Jack Merritt
have heard that it was Usman Khan’s
probation officer, Ken Skelton, who authorised his trip
to the Learning Together event.
But today, he insisted that he didn’t make
that decision alone.
He said that a mapper panel, a panel of experts responsible
for public protection, had backed the decision.
Ken Skelton told the jury that although there is no written
record of the mapper experts positively
agreeing to the trip, they had been aware
of it and had not objected.
"They must have said he can go," he explained,
"that decision would not have been
made alone by me."
Either way, Khan did travelm by himself,
on a train to the capital, despite what Saskia Jones’s
family’s lawyer said today was a remarkable
number of red flags waving.
Daniel Sandford, BBC News.
Now on BBC News, Click.
This week: How to uncover deadly secrets online.
The secret codes attracting more women into cybersecurity.
And Tenet, the Oscar—winning secrets of making time
to backwards.
AUDIO TRACKS BACKWARDS.
Welcome to Click.
We all know how easy it is to fake things online
these days, not even photos, voiced or videos are safe,
as we well know, right?
Yes, we’ve worn fake clothes, we have faked our voices
with software.
I’ve even been entirely faked with a virtual me —
although I am convinced that she looked ten years older.
I whole—heartedly agree.
Later in the program, we’re going to see the Hollywood
version of this, when we look behind the scenes at the film,
Tenet.
Spoiler alert — it wasn’t all real.
But these days, you don’t need a big budget to do this.
Just think of those Zoom backgrounds that we’ve
all been looking at.
Admittedly, the edges of your hair do often give
the game away, but these pictures are pretty good,
a lot better than we would have imagined they could be
five years ago.
(HARP GLISSANDO) So, check out the next advancements.
This is where Zoom can put meeting participants
into a meeting room, a real one that’s not real,
although I think something has gone wrong with the sizing
here, don’t you!
My seat’s way too low and you’re far too small.
There’s a variety of scenes.
Do you want to meet me for a coffee?
Look, here we are in a coffee shop.
Yeah, I will have a latte, please.
I’d say this is cute but does it make you feel like we’re
in the same room, really?
No, I still feel like we’re on 3 Zoom call.
Maybe this is one for the audience, rather
than the participants.
And while there is plenty of fakery around, the truth
is out there, as a certain Fox once said, and there are some
people who know where to look.
The Internet is just such a vast place, and like there’s
so much out there that’s just public, so many ways that
information can be manipulated.
And even, like, political news can be manipulated in someone’s
favour, so that is where I think open source
intelligence is useful.
18—year—old computer science student Kenyon Lee has gone
viral on TikTok by using so—called open source
intelligence, collecting and analysing publicly
available data.
His main trick.
He uses objects in a shot to guess heights.
WOMAN: How tell is Spencer?
Now, Kenyon did do this test on a video of me that he found
online and we’ll come back to that later.
Mainly on account of it being the most embarrassing
video I’ve ever posted online.
But we have some serious stuff to talk about first.
Look, trust me on this.
There are groups of people out there who are using open source
intelligence techniques to do much more serious detective
work.
These are Anatoliy Chepiga and Alexander Mishkin,
widely believed to have been responsible for the Salisbury
poisonings in 2018.
This week, a collective of open source intelligence
investigators revealed they’d also managed to link to these
two men to the bombing of a Czech ammunition depot
four years previously.
That collective is Bellingcat, and we’ve met its founder,
Eliot Higgins, before.
In 2014, it was just him, now he has a foundation
in the Netherlands, 20 staff members, and a growing network
of volunteers all across the world.
I caught up with Eliot again recently and he told me that
flight logs of Chepiga and Mishkin’s trip to the UK
in 2018 were revealed by a Russian news site,
and that showed that their passport numbers
were only a few digits apart, which was to say
the least, unusual.
That caught the interest of Bellingcat, in particular
our investigator Christo Grozev.
So, Christo looked at these databases and discovered these
two individuals didn’t exist before 2012.
Theyjust popped into existence in these databases in 2013,
which was suspicious.
He then approached basically an information broker
who sold him these domestic passport registration
documents, and stamped on them was the number
of the Russian Ministry of Defence.
And it became clear they were not ordinary people,
that these appeared to be Russian intelligence officers.
Bellingcat’s investigation didn’t end there.
Their evidence showed that scientists linked to the 2018
poisonings were following Russian opposition leader,
Alexei Navalny on A0 separate trips in 2020.
That includes the journey where he was poisoned.
It seems that the site we stumbled on with the Skripal
story, is this entire kind of network of Russian
assassinations using nerve agents.
And that sounds completely insane, but, you know,
we have the receipts.
We have the phone records.
We have everything to show this is happening.
And this is basically unique to Russia because Russia has
this acute, massive amount of corruption where data,
phone records, even if they are spies’ are freely available
to anyone that does a bit of Googling.
What tools or software do you or your investigators use
when you’re looking at photographs and trying
to work out where they’ve been taken and when you are tracking
information back into the Internet?
We have an online tool box, which is basically loads
of links that anyone can go and look at and use them
themselves.
Probably one of the most powerful tools is Google,
Google Earth, Google Streetview.
They are extremely useful.
Resources now allow you to track aircraft,
like Flightradar, marine traffic allowing you to track
vessels.
Photographs and videos can out very convincingly be doctored,
does that cause you a problem, or is that a new investigative
stream for you 7
You have concern about deep face and there is concern
on social media about things being retweeted.
We approach stuff as evidence so when we look at that kind
of thing, we say, here is a video of Tom Cruise
playing golf.
Can we find out the golf course?
Or if someone is giving a speech, it is going to be
from a longer piece of media.
People don’t give two minute on 20 seconds speeches.
They are usually longer.
So we look for that original footage.
We look at the account who shared it.
Is it shared by an official news organisation?
We look at the account behind it.
Have they shared things before?
What has that stuff been?
You look at the different dimensions of that video both
inside the video and how it has been shed and propagated
online.
Absolutely fascinating stuff.
That was Elliott Higgins.
Right, I cannot put this off any longer.
It is time to go back to Kenyon Lee.
The TikTok person who guessed your height?
The video he chose was my Ice Bucket Challenge from years
ago — which, if you have not seen, well, you are probably
one of the lucky ones.
I have seen it.
And I can’t unsee it.
I just can’t get enough of you.
I was trying to raise money for a good cause so I decided
to go full outrageous and I kind of forgot
that the Internet never forgets.
OK, here it comes.
I decided to look at the ice bucket challenge.
I marked the top of his head and scaled his height
using the bucket.
This translate to about 174 and three quarter centimetres.
There was a point to all of this.
Did he get your height right?
He said 174.75.
Let’s have a look.
Oh, wow, 175!
Not bad, not bad at all.
Not bad considering he did that from the dimensions
of a bucket.
Yes, good job he didn’t use a three and a half
inch floppy disk.
Hello, and welcome to The Week In Tech.
Lyft was sold to Japanese car firm Toyota for $550 million.
And TikTok said it would open a European transparency
and accountability centre in Ireland.
The announcement follows concerns over how the Chinese
social media giant serves its young users.
The first triple—drop drone hit the skies.
This electric device can carry and deliver three separate
loads — although it can only stay in the airfor a maximum
of 90 minutes.
Two college engineers won MIT awards for their invention.
This remote—controlled robot helps farmers stay safe
while it levels and distribute the crop.
It can dig itself out of grain as well.
And Australian researchers on Al labour — this autonomous
arm uses Alto identify nearby apples, leaves and branches,
all so it can plan the path for its pneumatic suction
plucker.
It can pick and deposit it apple in as few as seven
seconds 7 how do you like them apples?
This is Huawei Mate X2, the third iteration
of its folding phone and easily the best yet.
The folding screen is now protected inside the phone
when closed, which makes a lot of sense.
It has been a pleasure over the last years to be able
to try out so many of these folding phones and see this
new category of devices emerge and all the manufacturers have
had such different approaches.
Huawei’s was always unusual because it wrapped the folding
display outside the device which looked super cool but it
did leave the display vulnerable.
This time they are taking a leaf out of Samsung’s book.
They have put the folding screen on the inside of
the phone where it is protected.
They have taken a few leaves.
This is very similar to the Galaxy Z Fold2.
From the fingerprint reader on the side here to the speaker
on the bottom to the camera button and the chunky hinge.
I thought folding phone might be the end of every phone
looking the same but here we.
The Mate X2 is a much better design than the original.
The screen snaps into place.
This is a big improvement.
This is the first one of these appeal comfortable enough
to throw in my gym bag like I would with my regular
telephone.
Another fantastic bit of engineering.
When I first started using it, it felt really comfortable
in my hand.
I couldn’t quite put my finger on why.
I’ve been very scared of dropping these folding
phones because they are typically very expensive
and fragile.
But, with this one, I never felt like I was going
to drop it.
It sat comfortably in my hand.
And this is why — the phone is wedged—shaped,
which moves the centre of gravity closer into your
right hand, so when you’re holding it here, there is less
weight over here.
It weighs about 3009, which is more than a regular
phone but because of this, it does not feel like it.
I also like the outside display because, when it is close,
it is a full—size regular smartphone with no compromise.
You get pretty the same experience as you would
with a regular Huawei smartphone, including
the great camera array.
Great stuff.
That was Chris Fox.
The Secret Services have always been secret.
But it seems that something is in the world in espionage
are changing.
MI5 has just joined Instagram.
But other areas have not.
For example, the number of women working in the field
stands at just 16%.
But 3 schools competition is hoping to change that.
To see the role that women have taken over the years
in cybersecurity I first took a trip back in time to look
at some pretty special computers and coders
that use them.
I’m here at the National Museum of Computing on Bletchley Park,
a place full of computers and memories, not least
of the World War II codebreaking.
Today, it’s largely associated with Alan Turing, who cracked
the previously unbreakable German Enigma code.
His efforts undoubtedly helped give the Allies the edge.
But 63% of those working out of Bletchley Park were in fact
women, many of them working on the world—famous Colossus.
The job descriptions that they gave to women
codebreakers were different from the job descriptions
that they gave to men so, if you go and look at the paper
records, you will find that women are described as typists
or translators or clerical staff.
And that disguises what they were actually doing,
and this is because men were on a different pay scale,
so the codebreakers were on one pay scale and got differentjob
titles from the women, who were on a lower pay scale,
but it didn’t tell you anything about the quality of
what they were actually doing all day.
What should Alan Turing’s legacy be?
I’ve just written a book called Reflections of Alan Turing
which is trying to getaway from this sort of nostalgic,
sepia—tinted views of sort of what he was and what he
should stand for.
And he was always looking at the future.
He was sort of like almost science fiction in, you know,
thinking of these sort of amazing things like machine
learning, which was sort of obviously completely
impossible in the late 19405.
But while many women were employed in codebreaking
then, the imbalance in numbers between men and women
in cybersecurity today is huge.
Well, to help put things right, the National Cyber Security
Centre’s CyberFirst Girls Competition is trying to find
the next generation of female codebreakers.
It involves solving puzzles to do with coding and logic...
Cryptography, cybersecurity networking.
..and it’s really fun.
The competition, like, promotes the idea that
girls can code.
Here I am today.
It’s officially competition day and I’m very excited.
We’re going to also give the teams a — some top tips.
In the semifinals, we could see the leader board and I remember
everyone was rushing to do more challenges.
12— and 13—year—old girls from across the UK have been
competing in this year’s challenge, which has moved
online.
You may think that’s where it should be, anyway,
but it is a collaborative and creative process.
We need to succeed at our mission to keep the UK safe,
to keep people who live in the UK safe to work
and live online.
And we need all kinds of people to do that,
just to represent the society that we are working for,
but also to get all of those different perspectives,
and girls sometimes bring a different perspective.
And some would argue that women have a real knack for it.
Women are good at linguistics, which makes them irreplaceable
They are also very attentive to detail and good at pattern
recognition and overall, patience, which are
requirements for any computer science—related job.
With an abundance of all those qualities, this year’s
contenders are certainly feeling the pressure,
having battled their way through ethical hacking,
cryptography, decoding, logic tasks and much more.
While waiting to find out who wins this year,
I spoke to an ex—finalist who’s now studying cybersecurity
at university.
And because she is set on a career in the field
afterwards, we had to keep her identity under wraps.
I think definitely because it is computing there is more
pressure to do well because I got to prove myself
because I am a girl.
It was just that initial leap and then, I was hooked.
You see all these women who are very inspirational
and you want to live up to them and you don’t want to let
all the other women down, and you want to help inspire
the young people yourself.
Back to the competition, and the moment of truth
is upon us.
The winner is INAUDIBLE Highgate School!
CHEERING.
I really enjoyed the logic and coding ones, but I also
really enjoyed cybersecurity, because it required
you to think in different ways and use different methods
of hacking into some fake websites.
It really makes you think of how easy it actually
is to access other people’s data and how important
it is to keep your data safe.
I had to connect a circuit board.
And then once you covered your hand, it would start beeping.
And we figured out that those beeping noises when Morse code
— so, like, dots and dashes — and wrote read those down
and found out what those were.
In the cryptography sections, so we — if you ever needed
to send, like, a coded message to someone, I learnt a lot
of different types of codes.
After the competition, like, a cyber securityjob is now,
like, an option for me.
Ah, congratulations to the girls at Highgate
School!
What an inspiring story!
Now, one of the few films that I got to see the cinema last
year was Tenet which, as a massive geek,
I absolutely loved.
And I know you saw it twice, which I don’t think
I’ve ever done!
Yeah, the second time with subtitles, which I really
recommend, because it helps you to understand what on earth
is going on.
Because this is a film where half of the story
is going forwards and half the story is going backwards
at the same time, in the same scene!
So maybe it’s no surprise that it won the Oscar
for Best Visual Effects?
Yeah, and if you did see it and you wondered how they got
cars crashing and building exploding in both directions
at same time, well, the answer may surprise you.
Inversion?
Aim it and pull the trigger.
You’re not shooting the bullet, you’re catching it.
Whoa.
Doing visual effects on 3 Christopher Nolan film
is — I imagine is different from the majority of big budget
Hollywood films with a lot of visual effects in
because his approach is very much about finding ways
to film practical elements.
Wherever possible, we wanted to find ways of filming real
components and mixing it up a little bit so that they felt
very real and grounded in the real world, but still
had that sort of slightly odd, kind of — it wasn’tjust a case
of filming forwards things and reversing them —
there was more than that, more interesting and more
complicated.
A really a good example is, you know, where we have cars
pulling away quickly and they’re an inverted car,
you would expect the wheels to spin or throw some dust
or gravel out backwards.
What we did for those, we found a way of dragging
a car backwards while its wheels were spinning forwards,
so it threw dirt out backwards, but it was going in the wrong
direction.
So when then we inverted the whole thing, so the car
pulled away, sucking dust in to the back into the wheels,
so that was a really good example of the sort of approach
where we find a practical, real—world event and then just
sort of turn it’s on its head a little bit so it felt
real but wrong.
You want to crash a plane?
But not from the air — don’t be so dramatic!
MUSICAL STING.
Well, how big a plane?
That part is a little dramatic.
MUSICAL STING.
The plane crashing into a building — talking to people
since the film came out, everyone assumes that
that is largely CG, or must be — components of that
must be CG.
But in reality, that was actually achieved
as a practical event where we used a full—size,
real plane and built a set and towed the plane
into the set and the — all of the pyro explosions
and everything is in the shot for real.
You know, there were visual effects involved in that we had
to clean out the tow ropes and we added jet blasts
to the engines and CGI trees to be blown around but really,
the vast majority of the chunk of that shot was in camera
and so, it is kind of turning it on its head again a little
bit in that people assume that it is CG but it isn’t,
or that some, you know, major components of it were CG.
The end scene in the film obviously contains a lot of big
explosion events, and there’s combinations of forwards
and backwards explosions at the same time and obviously,
you can’t train an explosion to be backwards, so we had
to add one half of that shot.
So whenever there is a combination of two things,
one of them has been added.
So we did — we certainly did that a lot for the sequence
where there’s a minefield that people and trucks were running
up and down the hill with mines going off,
and we used a combination of practical shot, filmed
elements, but also CG explosions which had to,
incidentally, match exactly the practical ones,
because they were right next to each other.
Another major event in the end battle scene where a building
is simultaneously blown up by an inverted group of people
and a normal group of people, so it is simultaneously
exploding and imploding.
So, we built two large — or they were one—third scale —
ten—storey buildings, two matching buildings,
and we filmed each of them from a matching camera angle
and we blew one up at the top and one at the bottom.
And then we could reverse the film and composite the two
together — reverse one of the films and composite
the two together — so this building had this sort
of simultaneous exploding and imploding event.
This reversing in the flow of time — doesn’t us
being here now mean it never happened?
TALKS BACKWARDS.
OK, I think Spencer’s got a bit carried away.
As ever, you can find us on the right order on social
media — YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter at @BBC
Click.
TALKS BACKWARDS.
I’ll tell you what, I’ll leave him to it.
Thanks for watching and we’ll see you soon!
TALKS BACKWARDS.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
E”
a you will be about on line classes I have in
This is BBC News.
Our top stories:
A monumental moment in the fight against Covid —
the United States backs removing intellectual property
protections for vaccines.
Facebook upholds its suspension of Donald Trump,
ruling that the former President broke its rules.
The UK is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to monitor a planned blockade ofJersey’s main port.
It’s the latest escalation with France over post—Brexit
fishing rights.
And they kept on coming — the new mum from Mali who gave
birth to nine babies at once.
Welcome to our viewers on PBS in America and around
the globe
After increased pressure — the Biden administration says
it supports removing patent protections for
Covid—19 vaccines.
The move aims to make it easier to ramp up production
of vaccines and make them more widely available
for poorer countries.
US Trade Representative Katherine Tie said in
a statement:
Well this was welcomed by the Director—General
of the World Health Organization, who said this
was "a monumental moment in the fight against COVID—19."
A vaccine patent waiver makes it harder for vaccine
manufacturers to make money out of their products.
Shares in a number of the companies tumbled
on the news.
The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
and Associations says the plan is a red herring when it comes
to improving the distribution of vaccines.
The decision by the US administration is
disappointing, but it doesn’t change that it’s a wrong
answer to complex problem.
year you are
It’s a wrong but simple answer to a complex problem
because it disrupts, it distracts from
tackling the real challenges, which are trade barriers,
including from the US, disrupting supply chains.
It prevents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks
in the supply chain, the scarcity of raw materials,
where you really need full partnership.
And it also prevents a fast move because what we need now,
looking at the dramatic situation in India,
is rich countries starting rapidly
to share their doses with poor countries.
It is unfair to see that we have countries
where 20—year—old healthy young people vaccinated,
and most of Africa, basically, doesn’t get
any vaccine now that India is in such a dramatic situation.
Professor George Contreras is a professor
of law at the University of Utah and says while addressing
intellectual property rights is important,
it’s only one piece of the puzzle.
It’s a really surprising and unprecedented move
by the US Department of State and the US government,
which has usually been quite protective of
intellectual property rights.
OK, so where does this leave us?
What are the implications of it?
You know, as many have said, this is a necessary but not
sufficient step to distributing a Covid vaccine
on a worldwide basis.
Intellectual property rights are there,
they’re important, but there are a lot of other pieces
to the puzzle, including supply and
manufacturing, regulatory approval, safety.
breaking news from Hong Kong where activist
breaking news from Hong Kong where activistJoshua Wong has
where activist joshua Wong has been
where activistJoshua Wong has been sentenced for
been sentenced for participating in illegal
participating in illegal assembly in
participating in illegal assembly inJuly
participating in illegal assembly in July last year. We
assembly in july last year. We ran
assembly in July last year. We can cross to our
assembly in july last year. We ran cross to our ran cross to our correspondent Martin Yip who is at the
Martin Yip who is at the courthouse.
courthouse. The District Court here in Hong Kong has the
here in Hong Kong has the sentencing for four defendants
sentencing for four defendants in this Tiananmen massacre
in this Tiananmen massacre vigil, what we know is
in this Tiananmen massacre vigil, what we know isJoshua
vigil, what we know is joshua has
vigil, what we know isJoshua has been given ten months in
has been given ten months in jail and another well—known
jail and another well-known young
jail and another well—known young activist has been given
young activist has been given six months. Tiffany Yuen got
six months. Tiffany Yuen got another
six months. Tiffany Yuen got anotherfour months.
six months. Tiffany Yuen got another four months. Also,
another four months. Also, another activist, Janelle Lau,
another activist, janelle Lau, got four
another activist, Janelle Lau, got four months in prison. We
got four months in prison. We don’t know if they are
don’t know if they are appealing for the sentence but
appealing for the sentence but presumably we just have to wait
presumably we just have to wait and see what is going on in the
and see what is going on in the courtroom. They have pleaded
courtroom. They have pleaded guilty to the case but
guilty to the use but they could
guilty to the case but they could in theory appealed to the
could in theory appealed to the sentences. We are yet to hear
sentences. We are yet to hear from that. But we know that for
from that. But we know that for joshua Wong,
from that. But we know that for Joshua Wong, Tiffany Yuen and
joshua Wong, Tiffany Yuan and Lester
Joshua Wong, Tiffany Yuen and Lester Shum will be sentenced.
Lester Shum will be sentenced. Two of them are under detention
Two of them are under detention for the Democratic Primary case
for the Democratic Primary use under
for the Democratic Primary case under the National security Law
under the National security Law of subversion. The focus now
of subversion. The focus now would be what Janelle
of subversion. The focus now would be whatJanelle Leung
would be whatjanella Leung will
would be whatJanelle Leung will do with her sentence.
will do with her sentence. joshua
will do with her sentence. Joshua Wong was already in
joshua Wong was already in jail.
Joshua Wong was already in jail. Reminders of the
jail. Reminders of the background to him and what role
background to him and what rola he plays
background to him and what role he plays there. Joshua Wong is
he plays there. joshua Wong is seen as
he plays there. Joshua Wong is seen as a major figurehead
seen as a major figurehead among the young people but the
among the young peopla but the song young
among the young people but the song young people, he’s been
song young people, he’s been seen as kind of a hope that
seen as kind of a hope that could lead them to renew or
could lead them to renew or sort of reform the democracy
sort of reform the democracy movement and also to Beijing,
movement and also to Beijing, they see him as a big evil
they see him as a big evil character that they want to
character that they want to punish in the harshest terms,
punish in the harshest terms, as harsh as possible, but to an
as harsh as possible, but to an even younger generation of
even younger generation of protesters, he’s been seen as
protesters, he’s been seen as old school and that is why
saw rather violent protests back
saw rather violent protests backin
saw rather violent protests back in 2019 against
back in 2019 against extradition law or even
extradition law or even eartier,
extradition law or even earlier, back in 2014 with the
eartier, back in 2014 with the Occupy
earlier, back in 2014 with the Occupy Central, what we call
Occupy Central, what we all the
Occupy Central, what we call the Umbrella movement protest.
the Umbrella movement protest. Especially because the failure
Especially because the failure of the 2040 protest, fighting
of the 2040 protest, fighting the universal suffrage. Joshua
the universal suffrage. joshua was
the universal suffrage. Joshua was one of the leaders. It sort
was one of the leaders. It sort of the beginning of the divide
of the beginning of the divide of Hong Kong’s democracy
of Hong Kong’s democracy movement from that point. We
movement from that point. We will keep you up—to—date with
will keep you up-to-date with events
will keep you up—to—date with events in Hong Kong there.
Facebook says it will continue to stop
Donald Trump from directly using its platforms.
The social media giant’s new Oversight Board ruled
the former President had broken its standards and rules
by appearing to sympathise with January’s attack on the US
Capitol.
But the Oversight Board told Facebook to re—consider
whether the ban should be indefinite.
James Clayton has more.
Trump’s use of social media is almost impossible
to disentangle with Trumpism itself.
It was his way of communicating directly with Americans,
bypassing the mainstream media that he so loathed.
But did he also use that platform to radicalise?
Were his posts, in part,
responsible for these deadly riots?
Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg thought Trump’s posts
could lead to further violence and suspended Donald Trump
indefinitely the day after the riots.
Twitter went one step further, and banned Mr Trump forever.
He’ll never be allowed back onto that platform.
However, Facebook asked its decision to be reviewed
by its newly formed oversight board, which it
claims is independent.
It’s designed to make difficult moderation decisions,
and their decision today was complex.
It said that the oversight board has upheld
Facebook’s decision to suspend Mr Trump’s access
to post content on Facebook and Instagram.
However, it’s also said that Facebook couldn’t ban
Trump indefinitely.
The company must reassess this penalty,
it said, within six months of the decision.
Thejudgment does leave a way back for Trump back
on Facebook, but for now, the door is firmly closed.
And that is a huge problem for Donald Trump
and his hopes of a political return.
In a statement, the former president lashed out,
saying:
Facebook has been essential to Mr Trump.
His campaign used it to raise money and micro—target voerts.
He spent more than $200 million in 2020
between his campaign and his PAC on his Facebook
so it’s notjust an opinion that
Facebook was an essential part of this political power.
It was actually one of the few places
where he was putting his money where his mouth was.
Mr Trump yesterday released his own
communications platform,
but it’s really no replacement for
being on Twitter or Facebook.
At the click of a button, Mr Trump could beam himself
onto the computers and phones of tens of millions
of Americans.
That button has now gone, perhaps forever.
James Clayton, BBC News.
Britain is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to the island ofJersey, in the English Channel,
to monitor the situation after a row erupted with France
over post—Brexit fishing rights.
The French government threatened to cut off power
supplies to the Channel Island in a dispute over a new
licensing system for French fishing vessels.
ButJersey’s government says a more imminent danger
is 3 blockade by fishing boats of St Helier —
the island’s main entry point for goods.
Our correspondent Robert Hall reports
from the island.
This is where the one of the many boats that have been here
many boats that have been here and they think by the time they
and they think by the time they reach josie
and they think by the time they reachjosie there will be 50—
reach josie there will be 50- 100
reachjosie there will be 50— 100 small boats on the
100 small boats on the fishermen say they will protest
fishermen say they will protest peacefully, they got no plans
peacefully, they got no plans to blockade the port. They
to blockade the port. They won’t even be fishing. They
won’t even be fishing. They will show their presence to
will show their presence to show how upset and angry they
show how upset and angry they are they didn’t see
are they didn’t see this coming, they didn’t think they
coming, they didn’t think they were going to have their rights
were going to have their rights or ability to fish in
were going to have their rights or ability to fish inJersey
or ability to fish inJersey waters impacted by Brexit.
waters impacted by Brexit. Therve
waters impacted by Brexit. They’ve been fishing in these
Therve been fishing in these waters
They’ve been fishing in these waters most of them their whole
waters most of them their whole lives. Many of these fishermen
lives. Many of these fishermen catch more than 50% of their
catch more than 5096 of their fish
catch more than 50% of their fish from Josie’s waters. Under
fish from josie’s waters. Under the
fish from Josie’s waters. Under the Brexit deal,
fish from Josie’s waters. Under the Brexit deal, they still
the Brexit deal, they still have the right to fish, but now
have the right to fish, but now they need licenses. They’ve got
they need licenses. Therve got their
they need licenses. They’ve got their licenses back and they
their licenses back and they say there are whole load of
say there are whole load of conditions attached these
conditions attached these licenses which mean they cannot
licenses which mean they cannot fish as much as they want to is
fish as much as they want to is as much as they need to. It’s
as much as they need to. It’s that they are protesting.
that they are protesting. Therre
that they are protesting. They’re these licenses to be
They’re these licenses to be considered and to be able to
considered and to be able to fish more freely like they used
fish more freely like they used to be able to.
The entire Indian delegation to the G7 summit
of leading economies in London is self—isolating after two
members tested positive for Covid—19.
The news came as Foreign ministers re—convened
for the last day of the talks.
Our Diplomatic Correspondent James Landale reports. (TX)
Borisjohnson, dropping by the G7
talks this afternoon, determined to show confidence
in an international meeting hit by a Covid scare,
determined to show that face—to—face
diplomacy is possible in a pandemic.
I had a very good meeting with Secretary Blinken.
India’s Foreign Minister, 3 guest at the talks,
has spent the last few days in London meeting counterparts
from the United States and South Africa, even
the Home Secretary, Priti Patel.
But then this morning, this.
In a tweet, he said that he was made
aware yesterday evening of his exposure to possible
Covid positive cases.
"As a measure of abundant caution,
I decided to conduct my engagements
in the virtual mode."
India has suffered grievously in recent weeks, and it appears
two junior officials may have travelled while infected.
The Foreign Office has imposed tight
Covid rules at Lancaster House and the Indian delegation had
yet to attend any meetings here,
but the cases were picked up by mandatory daily tests.
The Foreign Secretary said the problem had been managed
and it was vital for essential diplomacy to continue.
We’ve done this in a very secure way
but we’ve got to get governments together,
leaders together and countries together if we’re going
to solve what is clearly notjust a global
pandemic but a global plan for recovery.
So, today, the Indian ministerjoined the meeting
in the now traditional way.
Officials say the discovery of these
two cases shows the effectiveness
of the tight regulations they put in place.
But it will surely raise questions
about whether it’s too early for face—to—face diplomacy
like this and whether future, planned
international meetings should go
ahead in person as planned.
As it happened, the pandemic was top of today’s agenda.
Ministers agreed to produce more
vaccines, share them more fairly,
but there was no promise to spend
more money doing so.
James Landale, BBC News.
29 students abducted by gunmen
in March from a forestry college in Nigeria
have been released.
The students were brought by police to a police station
in the north—western city of Kaduna.
Reports say a ransom was paid to the kidnappers.
Stay with us on BBC News, still to come:
A look at how rangers in South Africa are going
to extreme measures to tackle the problem of rhino poaching.
I, Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful
to the Republic of South Africa.
After six years of construction and numerous delays,
the Channel Tunnel has been formally opened by the Queen
and President Mitterand.
The tunnel is not yet ready for passengers
and freight services to begin.
For centuries, Christianity and Islam struggled for supremacy.
Now the Pope’s visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
Roger Bannister became the first man in the world
to run a mile in underfour minutes.
Memories of victory as the VE celebrations
reach their climax.
This night is dedicated to everyone who believes
in a future of peace and freedom.
you the money
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
The United States backs an initiative to waive
intellectual property protections for coronavirus
vaccines.
Facebook upholds its suspension of Donald Trump,
ruling that the former President broke its rules.
Let’s stay with that story now.
Alan Rusbridger is a member of Facebook’s
Oversight Board, and we asked him why no clear decision was
made on whether Donald Trump can ever return
to Facebook.
I think it was a clear answer.
I think that we said they were both right and wrong,
they were right to take the stuff down, they were right
to stop him because he was a clear and present danger
at a time of great volatility in the United States,
but it was wrong then to go on and say, well,
you are banned indefinitely because indefinitely is not
a word that appears anywhere on Facebook’s own rulebook,
and it is an arbitrary thing, and so we’ve just gone back
and said, you know, "Well done forgetting the original
decision right, but can
you think more carefully about defining what what this
period of ban is, and why?"
I’ve been speaking to Even Greer who’s a digital
rights activist and I asked her what she made of the decision
made by the Facebook oversight board.
I think when we focus on these individual
moderation decisions, especially ones about high
profile individuals like former president Trump, we are missing
the point which is that Facebook’s business model
of harvesting our data and using
it to algorithmically amplify and suppress certain content
is fundamentally incompatible with democracy.
We can go back and forth all day about whether or
not he should have been banned, how long he should be banned
for but in the end that is not
going to solve that fundamental problem.
We need comprehensive policies to address the harms
of big tech.
But given all that you have to make decisions and
just wishing them away by saying that we need stronger
oversight or whatever, in the here and now,
decisions have to be made about whether or not
Donald Trump is allowed back on.
That’s certainly right and I think it makes sense that
we’re having this conversation and Donald Trump is a repugnant
human being that has used Facebook and other platforms
to espouse racism and other harmful ideologies.
And so, I certainly understand the ground swell of outrage
and the desire for him to be removed from these
platforms but again I think we need to look at the bigger
picture because even if we do kick Trump off of all of these
platforms we still have a real problem on our hands,
which is that these companies that are
harvesting our data and amplifying some of the worst
content on the Internet in pursuit of advertising
dollars are actually building the foundation that brought us
Donald Trump in the first place.
And so even if we never hear his name again, we’re not
to address these concerns that are undermining democracy
and human rights and civil rights
until we get those policies in place, get that oversight
in place of these companies, notjust Facebook but all
of these surveillance companies — Amazon, Google
and YouTube as well.
Facebook is saying, this isn’t a perfect answer
and they introduced this oversight board
in the absence of any government regulation.
They said it is a fairly unprecedented
move they took to try to get some consistency in
these decisions.
They themselves admit it is not perfect but it
is better than what is out there at the moment.
What do you make of the oversight board
and how it is working?
I think the most important thing that
came out of this oversight board decision today
is the fact that Facebook refused to give the oversight
this allegedly independent oversight board — requested
information from Facebook about how its algorithms
operate and whether its algorithms were amplifying
Donald Trump’s racist and harmful content.
Facebook refused to give their own oversight
board that information.
And again to me that points to the fact that
this is not about some partisan bickering back and forth
about whether this content should be
up or down, this is a broader problem, a problem of this
business model and one that can only be addressed
through robust anti—trust enforcement,
privacy legislation and more.
Our thanks to Even Greerfor us there.
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
A court in Rome’s sentenced two American tourists
to life in prison for the murder of a police officer.
The friends from California had been on holiday in the Italian
capital inJuly 2019 when they were stopped
on suspicion of drugs offences.
An undercover officer was stabbed in the altercation.
The men said they had acted in self—defence.
In a growing power struggle within South Africa’s
governing African National Congress, its secretary
general, Ace Macka—Shoolay, has refused to comply
with his suspension after being charged with corruption.
Mr Macka—Shoolay denies the charges and called
the move unconstitutional.
Israel’s president has asked opposition leader
Yair Lapid to form new government after
Benjamin Netanyahu failed to form a coalition.
Mr Netanyahu had been unable to secure a majority
in the 120—seat parliament.
Now, to an extremely rare pregnancy and a possible world
record.
A 25—year—old woman from Mali has given birth to nine
babies at once.
Two more than she expected.
The babies were born premature, and weigh less
than a kilogram each.
Courtney Bembridge has the details.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
And nine.
Halima Cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
The babies are all well
and, if there are no complications,
the family will set a new world record.
Nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
Doctors in Mali were worried, so the government intervened
and the mother was flown to Morocco.
TRANSLATION: She was 25 weeks pregnant so we
tried to make the pregnancy go longer
until she reached 30 weeks.
She gave birth eventually
with the help of a cesarean operation.
We were surprised to find nine babies.
Nadya Suleman came to international attention
when she had octuplets in 2009,
and she holds the current world
record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
Courtney Bembridge, BBC News.
One unexpected consequence of the coronavirus
pandemic was a dramatic reduction in the poaching
of wild rhinos.
The figure fell by around a third last year —
the lowest level in nearly a decade.
But as lockdown restrictions ease,
that number is creeping up again.
Rangers in South Africa are going to extreme measures
to tackle the problem.
You may find some of the images in Tim Allman’s report
distressing.
By air, and by land, the battle against the poachers
rages on.
Here at the Balule Nature Reserve they hunt down
and sedate a giant rhino.
What they do next may strike you as rather gruesome.
We have decided to de—horn the entire
population because of our high level of threat.
We’re going to de—horn every rhino and even
rhinos with calves.
De—horning can be controversial, critics say
it can leave the animals defenceless.
It is designed to deter poachers.
Why hunt a rhino for its horn when it has
already been removed 7
Some say it is a relatively short term
fix and the horns do eventually grow back but something needs
to be done.
Rhino numbers in this area fell by two—thirds
between 2008 and 2019.
Lockdowns slowed that decline but then the lockdown
was eased.
Since November, December, last year and into 2021,
this landscape, and in particular
Kruger National Park, has been experiencing serious
numbers of rhino poaching incidents.
South Africa is at the centre of a poaching crisis.
Local hunters supplying
a lucrative international trade.
This may seem like a cruel solution but
the poachers will simply let these rhinos die.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
You can reach me on twitter — I’m @ LVaughanJones.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
This is BBC News, the headlines:
The US will support a plan to remove patent protections
on Covid vaccines.
The move would make it easier for more companies to produce
vaccines, making them more widely available
for developing countries.
The World Health Organization calls it "a monumental moment"
in the fight against COVID—19.
Your old in Hong Kong, 24—year—old Joshua Wong has
24-year-old joshua Wong has been given a
24—year—old Joshua Wong has been given 310—
24—year—old Joshua Wong has been given a10— month
been given a 10- month processed
been given a10— month processed for his part in a
processed for his part in a Tenormin massacre vigil. He is
one of many activists charged under the city’s sweeping
under the city’s sweeping national security laws. French
Britain is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to the island ofJersey — to monitor the situation
in the English Channel — after the French government
threatened to cut off power supplies to the Channel Island,
over disputed post—Brexit fishing rights in the lucrative
fishing area.
Now on BBC News, HARDtalk.
Welcome to HARDtalk, I’m Stephen Sackur.
Month by month, US President Joe Biden is shifting
away from Trump era foreign policy positions.
But how dramatic will the pivot be?
In the Middle East, there are signs of a changed
approach to the region’s two oil—rich adversaries,
Saudi Arabia and Iran.
More pressure on the Saudis, more engagement with Tehran.
My guest is the influential boss of Saudi Arabia’s Al
Arabiya English news channel, Mohammed Alyahya.
Have the Saudis forfeited America’s unstinting support?
Mohammed Alyahya in Dubai, welcome to HARDtalk.
Mohammed Alyahya in Dubai, welcome to HARDtalk.
Thank you for having me.
It’s a pleasure to have you on the show.
Would you accept that life has become much more difficult
for Saudi Arabia under the presidency in Washington
ofJoe Biden than it was under Donald Trump?
Ithink, you know, US—Saudi relations have always
had their ups and downs and, you know, disagreement
between the United States and Saudi Arabia has
never reached 100%.
The disagreements that we saw under the Obama administration
are very similar with the disagreements we’re seeing
today, that notjust Saudi Arabia, but other
regional actors have with the Biden administration.
Namely, it is, you know, appeasing the Iranian regime,
returning to the flawed nuclear deal and the consequences
that it had on the region.
So, you know, as a result of this administration’s
Middle East policy, Saudi Arabia does
not have it easy.
Gulf countries do not have it easy.
But I think the actors in the region that will suffer,
I think, the most as a result of the Biden administration’s
Middle East posture, as we see it right now at this
time, are countries like Iraq and Syria and Lebanon
and Yemen, where an empowered Iran can cause more
destruction, can cultivate its proxies even more,
undermine state institutions in those countries even more.
So, you know, the more billions we see going into Iran’s
pockets and the RGC’s pockets, the Revolutionary Guards
in Iran, the more suffering we will see in the region,
concentrated in areas outside the Gulf.
Yeah, interesting.
I ask you about Saudi diplomacy, and you choose
to train yourfire on Iran.
I guess we might have expected that.
But nonetheless, surely Saudi Arabia has to learn some
lessons and learn them quick.
And one lesson that surely is coming from America right
now is that Saudi’s war in Yemen has been
an absolute disaster.
So, is Saudi ready to reverse course, reassess?
Saudi Arabia has already done that, and, you know, I disagree
with the characterisation of the war as a Saudi war.
It’s fundamentally a civil war in Yemen,
between the government there, the legitimate government —
backed by UN resolution 2216, and by the United Kingdom
and the United States — on one hand, and the
Iranian—backed proxy, the Houthi militia.
Saudi military operations in Yemen are not nearly
as frequent as they were in the past.
Today, Saudi Arabia has put a ceasefire agreement,
a comprehensive one, on the table right now that
the Houthis are yet to accept.
And we can see that the Iranian—backed militia in that
country, Ansarullah, the Houthis, after the foreign
terrorist organisation designation was lifted
by the Biden administration, did not wait more than one
day to march on Marib and to consolidate those gains
in Yemen, and [oh rockets into Saudi Arabia and escalate.
And that was a predictable development after the signals
that came from the White House.
I mean, the Iranians consolidated their gains
in Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, right after the 2015
nuclear deal was signed by President Obama.
So it’s not a secret what an empowered and wealthy
Revolutionary Guards and Tehran is capable of doing.
Well, again...
They see a similar Iran—US policy and they’re acting
the same way they acted before.
Mr Alyahya, the geopolitics of all of this is important,
but maybe even more important is the humanitarian aspect.
The World Food Programme chief, David Beasley,
says the situation right now in Yemen is, quote, "Hell,
absolutely horrendous.
"There are 16 million Yemenis who are deeply food insecure.
"Many of that number are facing a very real threat of famine."
Now, the international community wants Saudi
to end its blockade of key ports to allow humanitarian aid
to flow in much quicker and more efficiently.
Is Saudi Arabia ready to do that?
Irrespective of talk of a nationwide ceasefire,
is Saudi ready to lift that blockade?
Of course, I mean, Saudi Arabia is the number one provider
of humanitarian aid to Yemen, both directly and through
United Nations organs, and it’s been doing that even
before the war started.
And the humanitarian situation before the war
was also a dire one, it’s not come as a result...
Saudi Arabia...
Forgive me, Saudi Arabia is still blockading key ports.
It is stopping aid getting to places it needs to be.
Will that blockade... 7
Is your news channel...
Is your news channel reporting the truth about this?
Of course it’s reporting the truth about this.
We have people on the ground in Yemen.
Almost all Yemen’s ports are actually open right now.
Some airport, there are restrictions on there,
and there are some restrictions on Hodeidah.
The problem with Hodeidah right now is that it’s one
of the most important places for the Iran—backed Houthi
militia to take hold of in order to continue
its ground offensive.
Saudi Arabia has repeatedly offered the UN to take full
control of Hodeidah, including its port, and that
hasn’t led to anywhere that is workable yet.
But again, Saudi Arabia does have a full—fledged
and comprehensive ceasefire agreement on the table
right now that includes opening all ports.
That was answered by Iran, by its Houthis, with a brutal
offensive on Marib, one of the cities that is not yet
under Houthi control, but is deeply threatened
by the Houthis.
And, you know, one thing that’s important to mention
that we don’t see nearly enough, especially in Western
media coverage of the war in Yemen, is the humanitarian
situation of people that are living under
the rule of Houthis — in Sana’a and Taiz
and elsewhere.
The reality of the matter is that after Ali Abdullah Saleh,
who was not a saint by any means, exited this
alliance with the Houthis, after they executed him
at the behest of Iran, we saw no limits to
the brutality of the Houthis.
We’ve seen systematic rape in theirjails,
we’ve seen assassinations ofjournalists, we’ve
seen assassinations of civil society members.
I mean, living under Houthi areas has been
Listen, I want to stop you...
And that’s one of the problems with lifting the foreign
terrorist organisation designation.
I want to stop you cos it’s important that this
is a question and answer session, and you’re saying
very interesting things, and there is no doubt
that the humanitarian suffering and the violence is on both
sides of the front line in Yemen, no doubt
about that at all.
But I’m just wondering for you, as a news channel majority
owned by the Saudi state, whether you report the truth
about the scale of Saudi bombing of Yemen, the impact
it’s had on civilians across the country,
the unbelievable figures, frankly — more than 20,000 air
strikes by the Saudi—led coalition since the war began.
Human Rights Watch documenting at least 90,
apparently unlawful, Saudi—led coalition
air strikes.
Do you tell the truth about all of this on your
Saudi—owned channel?
Of course, I mean, some of the most detailed
and around—the—clock coverage of the Yemen war, especially
when the majority of the fighting happened,
which is not the past year, was covered on Al Arabiya,
and representatives of the Houthis
were on the channel.
Representatives of Iran were invited as guests
on the channel.
You know, if you ask any Arabic speaker that
does watch Al Arabiya, it’s probably one of the only
places to go to understand the conflict, to hear points
of views of people from both sides of the conflict,
and the geopolitical consequences of that.
The Biden administration has ended its support
for the Saudi—led coalition’s offensive.
It is reviewing all Saudi arms sales.
You obviously have close links to the Saudi government
for all sorts of different reasons, many of them
Is it your view that the very top leadership in Saudi Arabia
now understands that this war has to be brought to
an end very quickly?
Well, it’s important to note that this is not
Saudi Arabia’s war.
The reality of the matter is that is a war between
the legitimate government in Yemen, Abdrabbuh Mansur
Hadi’s government — which is backed by UN
Resolution 2216, backed by the United Kingdom, by France,
by the United States, to name just a few countries —
and on the other side, an Iran—backed Houthi militia
that has acted and conducted itself in a very criminal
fashion, that has weaponised aid.
And as we mentioned, you know, has systematic abuse, torture,
rape in its prisons.
So for Saudi Arabia to withdraw will not
solve Yemen’s problems.
Saudi Arabia is in close cooperation today,
from what I understand, speaking to officials
with the United States, Saudi Arabia has drew back
a lot of its military operations in Yemen today.
And just to clarify, what happened today
is that the United States has suspended offensive military
aid to Saudi Arabia and Yemen.
Or military support rather, it’s not aid because...
And what we’re seeing is that defensive capabilities
in Saudi Arabia are still supported by the Americans.
Now, the line between defensive and offensive is still a matter
of contention, but the reality is that Saudi military
operations in Yemen have come almost to a complete
standstill.
Yeah.
That sheds light on something more important here.
That’s an interesting fact.
That was an interesting fact.
Saudi’s stopping...
Yeah.
You allude to it...
Saudi stopping the war is not a panacea to Yemen’s problems.
You allude to an interesting fact — that offensive
operations have been scaled back.
And I would put it to you that there are clear signs
the Saudi government, of course led by Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman, is fundamentally changing
its message because of the pressure from
the United States, not least its message on Iran.
If I look backjust a few years, MBS was likening
the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran to Hitler.
And now we learn that just a few weeks ago,
just a few days ago, in fact, Saudi officials
were having meetings with the Iranians, and recently
MBS said, quote, "We do not want for Iran to be
in a difficult situation.
"We want Iran to prosper and grow."
It sounds like the tone is changing.
I mean, I don’t think there’s a real change
in what the Saudis or other Gulf partners in the region
hope to see from Iran.
I think the descriptions of Iran from the past
are still accurate.
But, you know, Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries
and Arab countries in general would love to see an Iran that
leverages its strength.
Iran is a very rich country, it has 80 million people
in its population.
It has ski slopes, it has beautiful areas
by the Caspian Sea.
It has industry, it has a rich heritage, rich history.
Iran has every single ingredient to be a leading
actor in the region that leads by example, that works
towards economic prosperity, that adds value to its
neighbours and also receives value from its neighbours.
Mr Alyahya, I don’t think we need to be talking too much
about Iran’s ski slopes.
I think what we need to be realistic about is that
despite everything Saudi Arabia has tried to achieve
in diplomatic terms, the US is determined
to try to rejoin the so—called JCPOA, the agreement
on Iran’s nuclear programme.
That is very much alive.
Saudi Arabia doesn’t like it, but is going to have
to learn to live with it.
That’s the truth, isn’t it?
Of course, of course, and that will be difficult
for Saudi Arabia because an empowered Iran is
a national security threat for Saudi Arabia.
It’s also a national security threat for Israel and various
other Arab governments.
But, you know...
Are you saying...
Hang on.
Are you saying the Americans are idiots, then, that they
don’t even understand what’s in their own national
security interests?
No, no.
I mean, there have been many policies that have backfired
and were poorly constructed and they were drafted
by people who are not idiots.
I mean, to call every author of a bad policy an idiot,
I think would be a very tediousjob, Stephen.
Let’s talk about Saudi Arabia’s broader
international reputation.
Now, I’m thinking not so much about diplomacy
and geopolitics.
I’m thinking about the way people around the world have
come to see Saudi Arabia.
Now, you are a very senior Saudi journalist.
Would you share with me the feeling that the murder,
the brutal murder of Jamal Khashoggi in the
consulate in Istanbul, which was perpetrated by Saudi
officials who, according to American intelligence,
were operating under orders from the very top, that has
done immense and lasting damage to Saudi’s reputation, yes?
I would agree, I would agree, and I knewJamal Khashoggi,
and he was a dear friend, and I think that his
murder was a huge shock in Saudi Arabia before
it was outside of Saudi Arabia, and it’s something that runs
against the history of Saudi policy and its conduct.
And that’s why we saw, you know, the insistence on
And that’s why we saw, you know, the insistence on
completing the investigations and trials into the people that
were responsible for this, swiftly and thoroughly.
And that’s what the Saudis have embarked on.
But the investigations haven’t been completed, have they?
They haven’t gone to the very top because the people
who carried the can for this were relatively low—level
functionaries and officials.
And, as I say, that US intelligence document makes it
quite plain that authorisation of this operation, murderous
operation, went to the very, very top and clearly involved
the Crown Prince himself.
So the intelligence document was just repeating what any,
you know, basic analyst with exposure to Saudi
Arabia would tell you.
Of course, the people that were involved were
government officials.
They were people that were close to decision
making circles.
And that’s what made the crime even more egregious than it is.
So there was nothing really new in that report.
There was certainly nothing that, you know, condemned
the Crown Prince himself.
Essentially, there was nothing new in it.
Forgive me, but the conclusion that the Crown Prince
approved the operation, the conclusion, as
was in the document, the Crown Prince approved
the operation, the murder.
You’re telling me that that’s not significant?
That’s not true.
What the report said was that it was unlikely
that the Crown Prince didn’t know about the operation
because of the proximity of the people that were
involved in it.
That’s not a conclusion.
That’s an observation that many people have made and many
people can make and continue to make, but that’s
in no way evidence.
That’s no way a conclusion that would hold up
in any court of law.
Well, as you’ve pointed out to me, you’re a seniorjournalist.
And not only that, you’re a real friend, were a friend
of the late Mr Khashoggi.
I’m sure you are much more aware of me of the degree
to which Jamal Khashoggi himself feared that his end
would come in this sort of way.
He had told people, I don’t know if he told you personally,
but he described in his newspaper column how
he had been informed by Saudi al-Qahtani himself,
a very key lieutenant of Crown Prince MBS.
He’d been told that he was no longer allowed to tweet,
not allowed to write, not allowed to talk.
Qahtani had said to him, "You cannot do anything any more.
You are done."
Now, you’re a Saudi journalist, you’re a friend ofJamal
Khashoggi, and it sounds to me like you don’t want to accept
that this goes to the very top of the state which now
owns your channel.
No, it’s not about accepting or not accepting.
I’m not going to sling mud without any shred of evidence,
and that’s what we’ve been seeing a lot of throughout this
time and the coverage ofJamal Khashoggi’s murder.
The reality is Jamal Khashoggi never told me personally that
and any observer that sees the politicisation of Jamal’s
case would understand that all sorts of leaks,
all sorts of hearsay has been peddled and
spread in this case.
We saw it with the leaks in Turkey, we saw it with
the leaks in the United States.
We saw it everywhere.
I mean, this was a political football that didn’t
lastjust for one week, two weeks, three weeks.
It lasted for many, many months.
What we can go by is the facts of the case, the realities
of the case and the trials that happened, and for...
See, I’m very interested in the way you, because you are
a senior commentator and journalist, as well
as running the channel Al Arabiya in English,
you characterise Saudi Arabia as being, if I can put it this
way, in tune with a sort of modernising, reforming trend
across parts of the Arab world.
This is a quote from you.
"Young people are much more "in tune with other young
people these days "in other parts of the world.
What these young Arabs "are rejecting is antiquated,
archaic theocratic ideology, "which they’ve been spoon—fed,
controlled by groups "like Iran’s Revolutionary
Guards."
That approach no longer works, you say, but
I mean, Saudi Arabia is no reformed, modernised society.
It is still run along deeply authoritarian,
ideologically conservative lines, is it not?
No, no, it’s not.
I mean, it was.
That might have been a fair characterisation ten years ago,
but if you ask anybody that’s visited Saudi Arabia ten
years ago and visited today, they would tell
you that they see two different countries.
The reality is that today young women in Saudi Arabia
have the right to drive.
They have the right to, more importantly than drive,
They can travel without the permission of male guardians.
They can attend university and choose their majors
without the permission of male guardians.
They can take jobs, choose their careers
without the permission of male guardians, and that’s more
than what women can do in other Gulf countries and other Arab
countries, certainly more than women can do in Iran.
All that happened in lightning speed.
And that’s a reflection, of course, of the government’s
will to reform, but also of what I mentioned
in the article that you cited — young people are ready
for this.
You know, the myth that Saudi society was conservative
and wouldn’t accept these changes and had to move
slowly was shattered very, very quickly in Saudi Arabia.
This new Saudi Arabia you’re alluding to doesn’t seem
to match the Saudi Arabia that I see.
Let’s be very specific.
You run...
Have you visited Saudi Arabia?
When was the last time you visited?
Yeah, I actually visited the King Abdullah Economic
City to see this sort of modernisation
programme taking flesh.
As it happens, that city doesn’t really seem to have
gotten very far, but I’m more interested in basic statistics.
You tell me, as a Saudi journalist, how many
political prisoners are there in Saudi Arabia today?
I can’t give you a numberfor that.
Why not?
Because, you know, the issue of political prisoners is
an extremely politicised one.
Excuse me, you’ve just told me...
Hang on, hang on.
You’vejust told me...
Many, many, many...
You’ve just told me this is a modernised, reformed
Saudi Arabia where rights are respected,
not least of women.
Surely in this modern, much more democratised Saudi Arabia,
you, as an investigative journalist, working as a boss
of a news channel, could find out how many political
prisoners the kingdom holds.
But that’s a loaded question, that’s an extremely loaded
question, because many of the people that you would
consider political prisoners are in fact not political
prisoners, but prisoners who have been tried and convicted
of various other crimes.
You know, you can take the example of one gentleman
who was tried and convicted recently who was in Yemen
trying to cooperate and join Al-Qaeda in that country.
And he was described by the State Department
as an aid worker.
He ran a Twitter account that condemned Saudi Arabia’s
support for the anti—ISIS coalition, saying that this
will open Saudi Arabia for attacks and sympathising
with ISIS.
You know, many people would consider that free speech
and consider it freedom of expression for him to go
and support Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
That’s important to consider that the entire Al-Qaeda
contingent in Saudi Arabia, almost all of it has
moved to Yemen.
So, you know...
The thing is...
The thing is you can read the Amnesty International reports,
the Human Rights Watch reports.
You can see that there are still many individuals
who have done nothing more than dissent against the
government who are locked up.
We know that for a fact.
You may not want to acknowledge it, but we know it for a fact.
When you told me that women have these extraordinary
new rights in Saudi Arabia, the truth is a woman
in Saudi Arabia cannot file a lawsuit on her own today.
They still, women still need permission from a male relative
to marry or live on their own.
And those women who disobey their "guardian" can
still face arrest.
So I’m just wondering why you portray it...
That’s not true.
Women can live on their own without the permission
of their guardian.
I never said they couldn’t live on their own
without permission.
I just said that those who disobey their guardian
can still face arrest.
All of this is true.
I just wonder why you as a journalist do not present
the truth about what’s happening in
Saudi Arabia today.
Is it because you’re owned by the Saudi state and you know
what happens to journalists who speak out against
the leadership in Saudi Arabia, because your friend was Jamal
Khashoggi?
You know, I think these are very low blows and
unbecoming of the BBC, frankly, but the reality
of the matter is that there is a long ways to go
still in terms of women empowerment in Saudi Arabia.
There’s still a long ways to go in terms of legal
reform in Saudi Arabia.
Many of the problems that we’ve seen have been longstanding.
You know, Saudi Arabia’s taken baby steps in introducing
women’s education in the country over
the past years.
Today, we’re seeing improvements in women’s rights
happening at a much faster rate inside Saudi Arabia.
You know, the reality of the matter is that it is
still a work in progress, and it’s one that is
happening at varying rates on several different files.
Mohammed Alyahya, I’m sorry to cut you off,
but we do have to end there.
I thank you very much indeed forjoining me on HARDtalk.
Thank you.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
Its been called a monumental moment
in the fight against Covid — the United States backs a move
that would let developing countries manufacture
their own vaccines.
One of Hong Kong’s most prominent pro—democracy
acivists is sentenced to ten months prison for marking
the the anniversary of Tiananman Squeare last year.
French fishermen head forJersey to protest new rules
The UK is sending two Royal Navy patrol vessels
to monitor the island’s main port.
Super Thursday — millions of people across
Britain will cast a ballot today in a mammoth set
of elections for local councillors, mayors,
Scottish Parliament, and Welsh senned.
And they kept on coming — the new mum from Mali who gave
birth to nine babies at once.
Hello and welcome.
President Biden’s administration has announced
the US will support a waiver of intellectual property rights
to allow countries around the world to make their own
coronavirus vaccines.
He was responding to pressure on rich countries to share
vaccine supplies and technology.
The UK and the European Union have both said they do not
support the waiver: yet.
But two of the biggest vaccine manufacturers Pfizer
and Moderna are US companies.
Their shares fell after the announcement.
Courtney Bembridge has the details.
There is no doubt coronavirus vaccines are not getting to the
vaccines are not getting to the countries they are most needed.
countries they are most needed. Infections are spiralling out
Infections are spiralling out of control in India and Brazil
of control in India and Brazil where vaccination rates remain
where vaccination rates remain low. While in the US, it is
low. While in the US, it is estimated there will
estimated there will be at least 300 million doses more
least 300 million doses more than the population needs by
than the population needs by the end of
than the population needs by the end ofJuly. Even as the
the end ofJuly. Even as the vaccination programme extends
vaccination programme extends to children. The question of
to children. The question of how to close the gap on vaccine
how to close the gap on vaccine sunplv
how to close the gap on vaccine supply and fast is the subject
supply and fast is the subject of a fierce debate. One
of a fierce debate. One proposal is to waive patents to
proposal is to waive patents to make it easier for other
make it easier for other countries to produce existing
countries to produce existing vaccines. The US has thrown its
vaccines. The US has thrown its support behind the plan saying
support behind the plan saying the extraordinary circumstances
the extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic call for
of the pandemic call for extraordinary measures. It’s
extraordinary measures. It’s really surprising and
really surprising and unprecedented, the move by the
unprecedented, the move by the US Department of State and the
US Department of State and the US government. Usually they
US government. Usually they have been quite protective
have been quite protective of intellectual property rights.
intellactual property rights. The
intellectual property rights. The World Health Organization
The World Health Organization also backs the proposal and
also backs the proposal and 5575
also backs the proposal and says having US support is
says having US support is monumental. This is why. If the
monumental. This is why. If the virus starts to spread anywhere
virus starts to spread anywhere uncontrolled it would be at
uncontrollad it would be at risk of
uncontrolled it would be at risk of mutating and developing
risk of mutating and developing new variants which will come
new variants which will come back to haunt those who have
back to haunt those who have managed to control the
managed to control the spread. Pharmaceutical companies say
Pharmaceutical companies say the plan would do little to get
the plan would do little to get doses where they are most
doses where they are most needed. It’s the wrong answer
needed. It’s the wrong answer to a complex problem, it’s the
to a complex problam, it’s the wrong but
to a complex problem, it’s the wrong but simplest answer to a
wrong but simplest answer to a complex problem. It disrupts
complex problem. It dismpts and
complex problem. It disrupts and distraction tackling the
and distraction tackling the real challenges which are trade
real challanges which are trade bands,
real challenges which are trade bands, including from the US,
bands, including from the US, disrupting supply chains, it
disrupting supply chains, it prevents the immediate tackling
prevents the immediate tackling of the bottlenecks in supply
of the bottlenecks in supply chains, the scarcity. The World
chains, the scarcity. The World Trade Organisation needs all
Trade Organisation needs all members to agree before any
members to agree before any decisions can be made. The UK
decisions ran be made. The UK and the
decisions can be made. The UK and the EU maintain they
and the EU maintain they will block the plan, and talks will
block the plan, and talks will go on as cases continue to
go on as rases continue to rise.
go on as cases continue to rise. There was a reaction on
rise. There was a reaction on Wall Street to the news with
Wall Street to the news with some of the top drug stocks
some of the top dmg stocks trading in
some of the top drug stocks trading in the US falling quite
trading in the US falling quite significantly, more details in
significantly, more details in our business coverage in about
our business coverage in about 25 minutes.
To Hong Kong, where Joshua Wong and three
fellow activists have been sentenced for participating
in an illegal assembly on the Ath ofJune last year.
The vigil, held annually to commemorate the 1989
Tiananmen Square massacre in Beijing, was banned last
year amid coronavirus restrictions and pro—democracy
protests.
We can cross over now to our correspondent Martin Yip
who is at the courthouse.
Martin, tell us more about this decision. The district court
decision. The district court here in Hong Kong has
decision. The district court here in Hong Kong hasjust
here in Hong Kong hasjust sentenced, around an hour ago,
sentenced, around an hour ago, ten months in
sentenced, around an hour ago, ten months injail to
sentenced, around an hour ago, ten months injail toJoshua
ten months injail to joshua Wong, and
ten months injail toJoshua Wong, and six months, and four
Wong, and six months, and four months each for other
months each for other defendants, so four activists
defendants, so four activists in total. Joshua Wong you might
in total. Joshua Wong you might remember is the key student
remember is the key student leader, as well as another
leader, as well as another student leader, from the
student leader, from the protest back in 2014. They have
protest back in 2014. They have also been actively
also been actively participating in the protest
participating in the protest against the extradition law
against the extradition law amendment bill back in 2019,
amendment bill back in 2019, and all the way into early last
and all the way into earty last year, 2020,
and all the way into early last year, 2020, so this particular
year, 2020, so this particular use was
year, 2020, so this particular case was about the June four
case was about the June four Tiananmen Square crackdown that
Tiananmen Square crackdown that was held annually in Hong
was held annually in Hong Kong’s Victoria Park on
was held annually in Hong Kong’s Victoria Park onJune
Kong’s Victoria Park on june the
Kong’s Victoria Park onJune the fourth, and last year the
the fourth, and last year the whole of the police force
whole of the police force banned the event citing
banned the event citing Covid—19 emergency laws, they
Covid-19 emergency laws, they did
Covid—19 emergency laws, they did show
Covid-19 emergency laws, they did show up
Covid—19 emergency laws, they did show up for the event
did show up for the event still, thousands of people were
still, thousands of people were there, and they ended up
there, and they ended up with 24 being
unauthorised assembly. Joshua
unauthorised assembly. joshua Wong and
unauthorised assembly. Joshua Wong and three others pleaded
Wong and three others pleaded guilty, and so today, they
guilty, and so today, they received jail sentences. Joshua
received jail sentences. joshua Wong has
received jail sentences. Joshua Wong has already been
Wong has already been imprisoned for a separate case
imprisoned for a separate rase of
imprisoned for a separate case of unauthorised assembly, 13
of unauthorised assembly, 13 one half months for that
one half months for that sentence, and we understand the
sentence, and we understand the judge has ordered this new ten
judge has ordered this new ten month jail sentence to be
month jail sentence to be served separately. So the two
served separately. So the two sentences will not run
sentences will not run together, this is extending his
together, this is extending his term imprisoned by a further
term imprisoned by a further ten months, and is likely that
ten months, and is likely that the commemorations of the
the commemorations of the Tiananmen Square massacre will
Tiananmen Square massacre will also be deemed illegal this
also be deemed illegal this year as well in
also be deemed illegal this year as well inJuly, I
year as well inJuly, I understand? Exactly,
understand? Exactly, so what we learned so far is the Hong Kong
learned so far is the Hong Kong alliance which organises the
alliance which organises the event all the way since 1990,
event all the way since 1990, has filed this year’s
has filed this year’s application to the
application to the authorisation that looks after
authorisation that looks after the Victoria Park as well as
the Victoria Park as well as the police who have no
the police who have no objection permit. The
objection permit. The police are still processing the
are still processing the application, but people do
application, but peopla do expect
application, but people do expect this to be banned as
expect this to be banned as well, while the other
well, while the other department has a ready said
department has a ready said they would not process any
they would not process any application since the Covid—19
application since the Covid-19 pandemic
application since the Covid—19 pandemic is still going on in
pandemic is still going on in Hong Kong, so it is quite
Hong Kong, so it is quite unlikely that this year on June
unlikely that this year on june the
unlikely that this year on June the fourth there will be
unlikely that this year on June the fourth there will he sees
the fourth there will be seas of
the fourth there will he seas of candlelight again at
of candlelight again at Victoria Park marking what
Victoria Park marking what happened in Beijing in 1989.
happened in Beijing in 1989. Thank you for now, outside the
Thank you for now, outside the courthouse for us in Hong
Let’s get some of the day’s other news.
Anti—government protests in Colombia have entered
an eighth day, with demonstrators gathering
across the country.
At least 2A people, including a police officer,
have died since the protests began.
The UN is urging security forces to refrain from using
firearms.
The nationwide rallies were initially against
a now—cancelled tax reform bill but have left more than 800
people injured
Garrett Rolfe, the police officer charged
with murder of Rayshard Brooks, has won his appeal
over his dismissal from the force.
Rolfe who faces life in prison or the death penalty
if convicted lost his job after the shooting,
but a police oversight board has ruled that his dismissal
did not follow due process.
Space X, the company owned by Elon Musk which aims
to carry people into space, has successfully completed
another milestone in its development.
After four previous attempts ended badly, it’s latest
prototype has completed a successful
high—altitude ascent and landing.
The company was facing added pressure to succeed
with Wednesday’s flight after NASA announced a version
of Starship will be used as a lunar lander
when the space agency returns humans to the Moon.
Two Royal Navy ships have been sent to Jersey overnight,
over fears of a possible blockade by French boats,
in an escalating row overfishing rights.
The French government threatened to cut off power
supplies to the Channel Island in a dispute over a new
licensing system for French fishing vessels.
ButJersey’s government says a more imminent danger
is 3 blockade by fishing boats of St Helier,
the island’s main entry point for goods.
Our Europe correspondent, Jean Mackenzie, is in Normandy
with the latest.
This is one of many small ports that lie in the Normandy coast,
that lie in the Normandy coast, and about six
and about six boats left here this morning but they will be
this morning but they will be joined by other boats along
joined by other boats along their way and
their way and they think by the time they reachJersey
their way and they think by the time they reach Jersey there
time they reach jersey there will be
time they reach Jersey there will be 50—
time they reachjersey there will be 50— 100 small
time they reach Jersey there will be 50— 100 small boats,
will be 50- 100 small boats, and the
will be 50— 100 small boats, and the fishermen say they will
and the fishermen say they will protest peacefully, they have
protest peacefully, they have no plans to blockade the port,
no plans to blockade the port, they won’t even be fishing,
they won’t even be fishing, they just want to show their
they just want to show their presence, to show how upset and
presence, to show how upset and angry they are, they didn’t see
angry they are, they didn’t see this coming, they didn’t think
this coming, they didn’t think there would have their rights
there would have their rights or their ability to fish in
or their ability to fish in jersey
or their ability to fish in Jersey waters impacted by
jersey waters impacted by Brexit,
Jersey waters impacted by Brexit, they have been fishing
Brexit, they have been fishing in these waters most of them,
in these waters most of them, their whole lives, many of
their whole lives, many of these fishermen catch
these fishermen catch more than 50% of their fish from
50% of their fish from Jersey’s waters. Under the Brexit deal,
they still have the right to fairshare, but
they still have the right to fair share, but now they
fair share, but now they need licenses, have got their
licenses, have got their licenses back and they say that
licenses hack and they say that there
licenses back and they say that there are a whole load of
there are a whole load of conditions attached to these
conditions attached to these licenses, which means they
licenses, which means they cannot fish as much as they
cannot fish as much as they want to, or as much as they
want to, or as much as they need to, so it that that that
need to, so it that that that they are protesting, they’re
they are protesting, therre asking
they are protesting, they’re asking these licenses to be
asking these licenses to be reconsidered to be able to fish
reconsidered to be able to fish more freely like they used to
more freely like they used to be able to.
You are with BBC News.
You are with BBC News.
Still to come: Why the world’s oldest person has decided not
to carry the torch for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics.
I, Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful
to the Republic of South Africa.
After six years of construction and numerous delays,
the Channel Tunnel has been formally opened by the Queen
and President Mitterand.
The tunnel is not yet ready for passengers
and freight services to begin.
For centuries, Christianity and Islam struggled for supremacy.
Now the Pope’s visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
Roger Bannister became the first man in the world
to run a mile in underfour minutes.
Memories of victory as the VE celebrations
reach their climax.
This night is dedicated to everyone who believes
in a future of peace and freedom.
This is BBC News.
The latest headlines:
The United States backs an initiative to waive
intellectual property protections for coronavirus
vaccines.
Facebook upholds its suspension of Donald Trump, ruling
that the former President broke its rules.
In just under two hours, polling stations across
In just under two hours, polling stations across
Great Britain will open for a day of elections that’s
been nicknamed Super Thursday.
There’ll be votes for the Scottish and Welsh
parliaments, local governments in England and mayors of more
than a dozen cities including London.
Almost 50 million people will be eligible to cast
a ballot in what is a bumper set of polls including some
delayed because of the pandemic.
Our political correspondent Helen Catt reports.
Coronavirus has made today’s collections 3 little different.
collections a little different. Polling
collections 3 little different. Polling stations have been set
Polling stations have been set “P
Polling stations have been set up with safety measures, that
up with safety measures, that means cleaning and screens and
means cleaning and screens and 1-way
means cleaning and screens and 1—way systems. There will be a
1-way systems. There will be a clean pencil
1—way systems. There will be a clean pencil for each voter,
1—way systems. There will be a clean pencilfor each voter, or
dean pencil for each voter, or you ran bring
clean pencilfor each voter, or you can bring your own, and you
you ran bring your own, and you will be
you can bring your own, and you will be asked to wear a face
will be asked to wear a face covering inside. There may also
covering inside. There may also be limits on how many people
be limits on how many peopla ran go in at
be limits on how many people can go in at once. The outbreak
ran go in at once. The outbreak of the
can go in at once. The outbreak of the pandemic delayed
of the pandemic delayed elections which word due to
elections which word due to take place last years of this
take place last years of this year, there are a bumper set
year, there are a bumper set of polls
polls across most of the country. In Scotland, voters
country. In Scotland, voters will elect a 129 members of the
will elect a 129 members of the Scottish Parliament. In Wales,
Scottish Partiament. In Walas, all 60
Scottish Parliament. In Wales, all 60 senned set up for
all 60 senned set up for election. In England, A006 and
elaction. In England, 4006 and 50
election. In England, A006 and 50 council seats are up. There
50 council seats are up. There are also elections for the 39
are also elections for the 39 Police and Crime Commissioner
Police and Crime Commissioner is across England and Wales,
is across England and Walas, and a
is across England and Wales, and a new MP for Hartlepool.
and a new MP for Harﬂapool. Deposit
and a new MP for Hartlepool. Deposit will be open as usual
Deposit will be open as usual until ten o’clock tonight.
until ten o’clock tonight. Anyone self—isolating because
Anyone self-isolating because of
Anyone self—isolating because of coronavirus can nominate
of coronavirus can nominate someone else to cast their
someone else to cast their vote, and applications for an
vote, and applications for an emergency proxy can be made
emergency proxy ran be made until
emergency proxy can be made untilfive p.m.. If you have a
until five p.m.. Ifyou have a completed
untilfive p.m.. If you have a completed postal vote which did
completed postal vote which did not make it to the post
not make it to the post box, you get handed in at your local
you get handed in at your [oral polling
you get handed in at your local polling station until ten p.m..
polling station until ten p.m.. when it
polling station until ten p.m.. When it comes to counting
when it comes to counting results,
When it comes to counting results, that will take
results, that will take longer than usual as well. Different
than usual as well. Different accounts are taking place over
accounts are taking place over several days, from tonight,
several days, from tonight, until Monday.
Helen Catt, BBC News.
And we will have full coverage of super Thursday for you right
of super Thursday for you right here on BBC News throughout.
Now to an extremely rare pregnanc
and a possible world record.
A 25—year—old woman from Mali has given birth to nine
babies at once.
Two more than she expected.
The babies were born premature and weigh less
than a kilogram each.
Tanya Dendrinos has the details.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
And nine.
Halima Cisse gave birth to five girls and four boys.
The babies are all well
and, if there are no complications,
the family will set a new world record.
Nonuplets are extremely rare and risky.
Doctors in Mali were worried, so the government intervened
and the mother was flown to Morocco.
TRANSLATION: She was 25 weeks pregnant so we
tried to make the pregnancy go longer
until she reached 30 weeks.
She gave birth eventually
with the help of a cesarean operation.
We were surprised to find nine babies.
Nadya Suleman came to international attention
when she had octuplets in 2009,
and she holds the current world
record for most babies born in a single birth to survive.
Tanya Dendrinos, BBC News.
Let’s bring you some breaking news now and
the latest data from India’s Health Ministry has
revealed the country registered more than 412,000 new Covid—19
cases in the past 2A hours along with 3,980 deaths.
More than 329,000 people were discharged from hospital.
Those are the latest numbers coming out from India as they
coming out from India as they try and tackle that crisis at
try and tackla that crisis at the
try and tackle that crisis at the moment.
One unexpected consequence of the coronavirus pandemic
was a dramatic reduction in the poaching of wild rhinos.
The figure fell by around a third last year —
the lowest level in nearly a decade.
But as lockdown restrictions ease
that number is creeping up again.
Rangers in South Africa are going to extreme measures
to tackle the problem.
You may find some of the images in Tim Allman’s report
distressing.
By air, and by land, the battle against the poachers rages on.
Here at the Balule Nature Reserve they hunt down
and sedate a giant rhino.
What they do next may strike you as rather gruesome.
We have decided to de—horn the entire population
because of our high level of threat.
We’re going to de—horn every rhino and even
rhinos with calves.
De—horning can be controversial, critics say
it can leave the animals defenceless.
It is designed to deter poachers.
Why hunt a rhino for its horn when it has already been
removed?
Some say it is a relatively short term fix and the horns do
eventually grow back but something needs to be done.
Rhino numbers in this area fell by two—thirds
between 2008 and 2019.
Lockdowns slowed that decline but then the lockdown
was eased.
Since November, December, last year and into 2021,
this landscape, and in particular Kruger National
Park, has been experiencing serious numbers of rhino
poaching incidents.
South Africa is at the centre of a poaching crisis.
Local hunters supplying a lucrative international
trade.
This may seem like a cruel solution but the poachers
will simply let these rhinos die.
Tim Allman, BBC News.
Time to check on the latest sports news.
Hello, I’m Tulsen Tollett and this is your sports news,
where we start with football and Chelsea have set up
an all English Champions League final against Manchester City
later this month.
The Londoners were 2—0 winners on the night over Real Madrid
in their semi—final second leg, handing them a 3—1 aggregate
victory as they look to lift the trophy for the first
time since 2012.
What’s another energetic performance, full of positive
performance, full of positive attitude, full of hunger. What
attitude, full of hunger. what a spirit to
attitude, full of hunger. What a spirit to show in moments
a spirit to show in moments where we needed to suffer in
where we needed to suffer in first half and what a reaction
first half and what a reaction in second half. And to never
in second half. And to never have, the heads were never
have, the heads were never down, the heads were always up
down, the heads were always up even after these big chances
even after these big chances that we missed.
The Europa League takes centre stage later on Thursday
and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s Manchester United have a great
chance to make it to the final in Gdansk in Poland
later this month.
United have a 6—2 advantage over Roma going into the second
leg of their semi—final in Italy on Thursday.
The Europa League was the last trophy United won when managed
byJose Mourinho, they beat Ajax 2—0 in the final
in May 2017.
m:
We are going to play to win that game. And that’s the only
that game. And that’s the only “Y
that game. And that’s the only way I think we should approach
way I think we should approach
these games, to develop, to test ourselves, to challenge
test ourselves, to challenge ourselves. Of course there
ourselves. Of course there might be one or two changes in
might be one or two changes in the selection, because of the
the selection, because of the games coming up as well, but we
games coming up as well, but we have to get into the final.
Meanwhile, Villarreal will travel to the Emirates Stadium
with a 2—1 advantage over Arsenal in the night’s other
semi—final.
The former Arsenal boss Unai Emery has highlighted
Pierre—Emerick Aubameyang as a danger man in the second leg.
The Gabon forward scored a hat—trick in the semi—final
against Valencia two years ago, when Emery was still in charge
at the club.
Rafael Nadal wasn’t in a giving mood as he beat birthday boy
Carlos Alcaraz 6—1, 6—2 in their second round match
at the Madrid Open.
Alcaraz was celebrating his 18th birthday playing
against the great clay court champion who’s looking
for a sixth title at this event.
His Spanish compatriot did manage to break the Nadal serve
in the fourth game of the second set..
But his dream was short lived going down in straights
sets 6—1, 6—2.
ii
It would be very fair if I could win. A really enjoy, I
could win. A really enjoy, I really loan from him. And, yes,
really loan from him. And, yes, I
really loan from him. And, yes, Ithink
really loan from him. And, yes, I think this much made me grow
I think this much made me grow up.
In the women’s event the world number one Ash Barty
is through to the semi—finals.
She was pushed all the way by Petra Kvitova but eventually
came through in three sets at an event where
the Australian has never previously progressed
beyond the last eight.
It’s expected in the coming hours that Wales captain
Alun WynJones will be named as skipper of the British
and Irish Lions squad to tour South Africa.
Head coach Warren Gatland will also announce his 36 man
squad that will play three tests against the Springboks
after six lead—in games starting with a Test match
againstJapan at Murrayfield on 26June.
You can get all the latest sports news at our website
— that’s bbc.com/sport.
But from me, Tulsen Tollett, and the rest of the team
that is your sports news for now.
Our thanks to Tulsen Tollett and The Team.
The world’s oldest person has decided not to take part
in the torch relay for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics due
to coronavirus concerns.
Kane Tanaka is 118 years old, and was due to participate
in the relay in Fukuoka province, but with coronavirus
cases surging acrossjapan, she has decided to pull out
to avoid the risk of spreading the virus.
Danai Howard reports.
APPLAUSE
APPMUSE
APPLAUSE . For Kane Tanaka at this
. For Kane Tanaka at this moment was a lifetime
moment was a lifetime achievement. At 160 in years
achievement. At 160 in years old she was awarded a Guinness
old she was awarded a Guinness World Records for being the
World Records for being the world —— 116. This year, at
world -- 116. This year, at 118, she was
world —— 116. This year, at 118, she was due another
118, she was due another monumental moment. Kane Tanaka
monumental moment. Kane Tanaka was chosen be one of the
was chosen be one of the participants in the torch relay
participants in the torch relay for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics.
for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic. But
for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. But with coronavirus cases are
But with coronavirus cases are surging in
But with coronavirus cases are surging inJapan she has
surging inJapan she has announced she is pulling out of
announced she is pulling out of the torch relay to avoid
the torch relay to avoid spreading the virus stop a
spreading the virus stop a statement from her nursing home
statement from her nursing home said:
The torch relay, which began in March, has been hit hard by the
March, has been hit hard by the pandemic.
pandemic. A people involved in it
pandemic. A peopla involved in it have so
A peopla involved in it have so far
A people involved in it have so far been diagnosed with Covid.
far been diagnosed with Covid. Cases have been rocketing
Cases have been rocketing for two months now, spurred by
two months now, spurred by variance. Last
variance. Last month Japan declared a state of emergency
declared a state of emergency in Tokyo, Oscar, and Kyoto to
in Tokyo, Oscar, and Kyoto to curb the number of infections.
curb the number of infections. It is set to expire next week,
It is set to expire next week, but in the worst hit areas
but in the worst hit areas there is no sign of a decline
there is no sign of a decline in cases. On Wednesday, prime
in cases. On Wednesday, prime minister your
in cases. On Wednesday, prime minister yourfigures figure
minister your figures figure met with
minister yourfigures figure met with ministers to discuss
met with ministers to discuss extending the state of
extending the state of emergency. Having already been
emergency. Having already been postponed once, Japan has said
postponed once, japan has said it is
postponed once, Japan has said it is determined for the game
it is determined for the game to go ahead.
to go ahead. TRANSLATION: If we take
TRANSLATION: If we take appropriate measures I think
appropriate measures I think pub“:
appropriate measures I think public feeling towards the
public feeling towards the Olympics will change. But held
Olympic will change. But held in empty
Olympics will change. But held in empty parks away from
in empty parks away from crowds, this torch relay may be
crowds, this torch relay may be a sign of what’s to come this
a sign of what’s to come this summer.
Danai Howard, BBC News.
Stay with us we have so much more to come in this programme.
more to come in this programme. All the top business stories.
All the top business stories. Including a look at how
Including a look at how companies are getting their
companies are getting their workforce back into the office
workforce back into the office and what the new way of work
and what the new way of work will look like once we are
will look like once we are beyond the pandemic. The BBC
beyond the pandemic. The BBC has done over the —— sum of its
has done over the -- sum of its own
has done over the —— sum of its own research to look at what
own research to look at what peopla are
own research to look at what people are planning, hybrid
peopla are planning, hybrid working,
people are planning, hybrid working, some from home, some
working, some from home, some in the office. We will discuss
in the office. We will discuss that in detail next. Eye will
that in detail next. Eye will see you soon.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve
got a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle
that will run its way along the south coast
through the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland,
while some may see some sharp showers in the southeast
corner of England for a while, there should be fewer showers
through the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite
as cold by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery
showers with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some
eastern parts of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England
and Wales on Saturday and for a while in Northern
Ireland, the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
This is BBC News with the latest headlines
for viewers in the UK and around the world.
Goodbye Working From Home — hello Hybrid Working.
No full—time return to the office for millions,
as we emerge from the pandemic, according to BBC research.
as we emerge from the pandemic, according to BBC research.
It’s according to BBC research. a healthy percentage oi
working
It’s a healthy percentage of working from home and
working from home and a healthy percentage of being in
percentage of being in the office.
Adverse reaction — Pharma shares tumble
as President Biden backs suspending patents
on Covid vaccines.
Ride to recovery — Uber reports record bookings
in March and April, but losses are still piling up.
Plus, moral dilemma — why Facebook was right
and wrong to ban Trump.
We hearfrom atop member of its Oversight Board.
This
We start with the future of work as we emerge
from the pandemic, because some of the UK’s
biggest employers have told the BBC they don’t plan
to bring staff back to the office full time.
43 out of 50 firms told us they would
embrace a mix of home and office working, with staff
encouraged to work from home two to three days a week.
Another four said they’re keeping the idea of hybrid
working under review.
What will it all mean forworkers, companies,
and cities?
Ben Thompson reports.
back
backin
back in the office after 1A months at home. I took on my
months at home. I took on my rola in
months at home. I took on my role in March of 2020. It was a
rola in March of 2020. It was a baptism by
role in March of 2020. It was a baptism by pandemic. For
baptism by pandemic. For Monica, who started her new
baptism by pandemic. For Monica, who started her newjob
Monica, who started her new job just as the
Monica, who started her newjob just as the crisis began,
just as the crisis began, getting back to her desk is a
getting back to her desk is a welcome change from the now
welcome change from the now familiar distractions of home.
familiar distractions of home. Homeschooling for a 12—year—old
Homeschooling for a 12-year-old with a
Homeschooling for a 12—year—old with a husband who was an
with a husband who was an architect and works full—time
architect and works full-time at
architect and works full—time at home also is certainly
at home also is certainly causing some challenges for us.
causing some challanges for us. Now, we
causing some challenges for us. Now, we are reconfiguring, so
Now, we are reconfiguring, so it’s a healthy percentage of
it’s a healthy percentage of working from home and a healthy
working from home and a healthy percentage of being in the
percentage of being in the office. In means employers have
office. In means employers have to make some big decisions
to make some big decisions about how and where their staff
about how and where their staff will work, making the most of
will work, making the most of the new
the new flexibility, without stifling teamwork and
stifling teamwork and collaboration. We are never
collaboration. We are never going to go
going to go back to working to used to work. People working
used to work. People working from home 3— four days will
from home 3- four days will need
from home 3— four days will need 20% less space but we will
need 2096 less space but we will not do
need 20% less space but we will not do that if everyone is
not do that if everyone is working from home on Mondays
working from home on Mondays and Fridays, so we will have to
and Fridays, so we will have to sort of manage that quite
sort of manage that quite carefully. As well as the
carefully. As well as the impact on officers, what about
impact on officers, what about the shops and cafe that cater
the shops and cafe that rater to
the shops and cafe that cater to commuters? We rely really
to commuters? We rely really heavily on the office trades.
heavily on the office trades. There is locations that have
There is locations that have 5000 people, only 140 people
5000 peopla, only 140 peopla fame
5000 people, only 140 people came to the building, so most
fame to the building, so most of the
came to the building, so most of the people working from
of the peopla working from home,
of the people working from home, only once a week are
home, only once a week are coming, and that makes it
coming, and that makes it really difficult. Working from
really difficult. Working from home is not for everyone.
home is not for everyone. Especially those without access
Especially those without access to the right technology or
to the right technology or reliable Internet, or even a
reliable Internet, or even a quiet place to work. But
quiet place to work. But does also depend on where in the
also depend on where in the country you live? Is London the
country you live? Is London the capital with its long commutes
capital with its long commutes high house prices different to
high house prices different to elsewhere, where less time and
elsewhere, where less time and money and is spent on commuting
money and is spent on commuting and property is more
and property is more affordable. Working from home
affordable. Working from home may just be
affordable. Working from home mayjust be one of the one
may just be one of the one enduring
mayjust be one of the one enduring changes brought about
enduring changes brought about by this pandemic. I worry about
by this pandemic. I worry about the long-term
by this pandemic. I worry about the long—term impact on the
the long-term impact on the enterprise,
the long—term impact on the enterprise, and our culture,
enterprise, and our culture, collaboration, how we train
collaboration, how we train peopla,
collaboration, how we train people, how we develop people,
people, how we develop people, advertising and creative
advertising and creative industries is something you
industries is something you learn from your colleagues and
learn from your colleagues and you ran only
learn from your colleagues and you can only really do that if
you ran only really do that if you are
you can only really do that if you are around them in an
you are around them in an office. Fewer officers are
office. Fewer officers are being built, many existing ones
being built, many existing ones could be converted to flats,
could be converted to ﬂats, and as
could be converted to flats, and as businesses and their
and as businesses and their staff adjuster new normal, our
staff adjuster new normal, our towns and cities could look
towns and cities could look very different. Ben Thompson,
very different. Ben Thompson, BBC News in London.
In Australia, with the pandemic relatively
under control, offices have been open for almost a year.
50 has the hybrid system taken off there?
Let’s go to Sydney and talk to Mark Humphery—Jenner,
Associate Professor of Finance at the University
of New South Wales.
Good to talk to you again. What
Good to talk to you again. what is happening
Good to talk to you again. What is happening in Australia? What
is happening in Australia? what is the
is happening in Australia? What is the norm now? It’s good to
is the norm now? It’s good to be with you. At the moment,
be with you. At the moment, hybrid working really is the
hybrid working really is the normal in Sydney at the moment.
normal in Sydney at the moment. Example, the Australian Bureau
Example, the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey people and
of Statistic survey peopla and found
of Statistics survey people and found A1% of people had been
found 4196 of peopla had been working a
found A1% of people had been working a least one day from
working a least one day from home in February of 2021. This
home in February of 2021. This was up from around 24% about
was up from around 2496 about one year ago.
was up from around 24% about one year ago. We are seeing a
one year ago. We are seeing a significant increase and shift
significant increase and shift towards people working from
towards peopla working from home,
towards people working from home, and this is not
home, and this is not necessarily unpopular. A
necessarily unpopular. A majority of people did actually
majority of peopla did actually want
majority of people did actually want to work from home at least
want to work from home at least for one or two days each week.
for one or two days each week. We are seeing, according to the
We are seeing, according to the Australian Bureau of
Australian Bureau of Statistics, around 47% of
Statistic, around 4796 of peopla
Statistics, around 47% of people expected this to
people expected this to continue into the future and
continue into the future and about 8% of people thought work
about 896 of peopla thought work from
about 8% of people thought work from home would increase in the
from home would increase in the future, although admittedly 11%
future, although admittedly 1196 thought it
future, although admittedly 11% thought it would decline, so
thought it would decline, so very much hybrid work is what
very much hybrid work is what is happening in Australia at
is happening in Australia at the moment, notwithstanding
the moment, notwithstanding Covid being under control. This
Covid being under control. This could be because of significant
could be because of significant tail risk with one Covid event
tail risk with one Covid event so Australia responds very
so Australia responds very severely and quite rapidly
severely and quite rapidly towards one, even one Covid
towards one, even one Covid incident, and this creates a
incident, and this creates a significant risk for
significant risk for businesses, if even one of
businesses, if even one of their employees shows up with
their employees shows up with Covid and hence the significant
Covid and hence the significant caution, many companies have
caution, many companies have shown. Also as well, if we
shown. Also as well, if we think long—term, we could be
think long-term, we could be facing
think long—term, we could be facing another pandemic in
facing another pandemic in years to come, of another
years to come, of another nature, so businesses have to
nature, so businesses have to be ready and prepared for every
be ready and prepared for every eventuality, presumably, but at
eventuality, presumably, but at the same time, it’s
the same time, it’s important as we heard in Ben’s report for
as we heard in Ben’s report for people to be together, to
people to be together, to be alongside one another in terms
alongside one another in terms of development, culture, that
of development, culture, that kind of thing. That’s
kind of thing. That’s absolutely true, so we will see
absolutely true, so we will see impacts on people. A senior
impacts on people. A senior employee who perhaps already
employee who perhaps already has those connections, already
has those connections, already knows people at work, already
knows peopla at work, already have a
knows people at work, already have a broad smattering of
have a broad smattering of peopla
have a broad smattering of people they know, they are
peopla they know, they are going to
people they know, they are going to be less affected in
going to be lass affected in that
going to be less affected in that respect. Of course they
that respect. Of course they don’t need to go out and build
don’t need to go out and build those connections. Younger
those connections. Younger employees will clearly be more
employees will clearly be more affected because they will
affected because they will suffer a lot more from the
suffer a lot more from the reduction in collaboration, so
reduction in collaboration, so we could see some negative
we could see some negative impacts, the head of
we could see some negative impacts, the head ofJP Morgan,
impacts, the head oij Morgan, said
impacts, the head ofJP Morgan, said that he expected people to
said that he expected people to be back in the workplace in the
be back in the workplace in the near future,
be back in the workplace in the nearfuture, telling us that
be back in the workplace in the near future, telling us that he
near future, telling us that he really wants people to get back
really wants peopla to get back so
really wants people to get back so they ran
really wants people to get back so they can collaborate and
so they can collaborate and continue to do so. That said,
continue to do so. That said, peopla do
continue to do so. That said, people do like the flexibility,
peopla do like the ﬂexibility, so
people do like the flexibility, so we’re going to happen to see
so we’re going to happen to see a happy medium between the
a happy medium between the ﬂexibility
a happy medium between the flexibility associated with
flexibility associated with working from home and the need
working from home and the need for collaboration, and there
for collaboration, and there will be some sombre balancing
will be some sombre balancing act, at least in the near
act, at least in the near future as companies try to
future as companies try to costs saved by reducing square
costs saved by reducing square metre edge while still
metre edge while still balancing employees’ desires.
balancing employees’ desires. We will have to leave it there
We will have to leave it there but we appreciate your thoughts
but we appreciate your thoughts on this subject, and we would
on this subject, and we would like to hear
on this subject, and we would like to hearfrom
on this subject, and we would like to hear from you as well,
like to hear from you as well, tell us what you think on our
tell us what you think on our Twitter. What is your new
Twitter. What is your new normal? Are you hybrid working
normal? Are you hybrid working already? Are you still working
already? Are you still working solely at home? How has it
solely at home? How has it impacted you? We would love to
impacted you? We would love to hear what you are experiencing.
Drug company shares have fallen sharply after the US
backed a proposal to suspend patents on Covid—19 vaccines
to improve access for developing countries.
The push at the World Trade Organisation was led by India
and South Africa and backed by more than 100 countries,
but until now, has been resisted by rich nations
where the top drugmakers are based.
From New York, here’s Michelle Fleury.
A breakthrough at a time of the urgent need, as the pandemic
urgent need, as the pandemic rages in India and Brazil, the
rages in India and Brazil, the joe Biden
rages in India and Brazil, the Joe Biden administration agreed
joe Biden administration agreed to suspend
Joe Biden administration agreed to suspend patent protections,
to suspend patent protections, and this is significant because
and this is significant because as of mid April wealthy
as of mid April wealthy countries had secured 87% of
countries had secured 8796 of doses
countries had secured 87% of doses dispensed around the
doses dispensed around the world, and the US trade
world, and the US trade representative put out a
representative put out a statement saying this is a
statement saying this is a global health crisis, and the
global health crisis, and the extraordinary circumstances
extraordinary circumstances all
extraordinary circumstances call for extraordinary
call for extraordinary measures. The administration
measures. The administration believes strongly in
believes strongly in intellectual property
intellectual property protections, but in service of
protections, but in service of ending this pandemic, supports
ending this pandemic, supports the waiver of those protections
the waiver of those protections for Covid—19 vaccines.
for Covid—19 vaccines. The decision was praised, with some
decision was praised, with some railing it a
decision was praised, with some calling it a watershed moment.
calling it a watershed moment. The US has been a major hold
The US has been a major hold out at the World Trade
out at the World Trade Organisation which had been
Organisation which had been falling for
Organisation which had been calling for such a move, but
falling for such a move, but with the
calling for such a move, but with the UK and the EU still
with the UK and the EU still blocking the push to waive
blocking the push to waive patents protections, the
patents protections, the wrangling is not over yet.
wrangling is not over yet. Vaccine campaigners, global
Vaccine campaigners, global justice
Vaccine campaigners, global Justice Now, said they urge all
justice Now, said they urge all world
Justice Now, said they urge all world leaders to see the
world leaders to see the writing on the ball and put
writing on the ball and put peopla ‘s
writing on the ball and put people ‘s lives and head of
people ‘s lives and head of corporate profit. Moderna’s
corporate profit. Moderna’s share price fell the sharpest,
share price fell the sharpest, with no other product on the
with no other product on the market, it is a reflection of
market, it is a reﬂaction of how
market, it is a reflection of how important the Covid vaccine
how important the Covid vaccine is to its bottom line. The
is to its bottom line. The World Trade Organisation
World Trade Organisation because my General Counsel ‘s
because my General Counsel ‘s meeting this week.
Gervais Williams is Head of Equities at the investment
manager Premier Miton.
Good to see you. What are your
Good to see you. what are your thoughts on
Good to see you. What are your thoughts on this move on the
thoughts on this move on the part of the US to agree to a
part of the US to agree to a waiver? Thing it really sets it
waiver? Thing it really sets it in the context of globalisation
in the context of globalisation is beginning to demonstrate
is beginning to demonstrate that up till now we have been
that up till now we have been quite happy to rely on an empty
quite happy to rely on an empty number of suppliers, and Covid
number of suppliers, and Covid has highlighted the risks of
has highlighted the risks of the outcome of the long
the outcome of the long distance involved, and often
distance involved, and often people find themselves a long
people find themselves a long “Y
people find themselves a long way down the rest, so what
way down the rest, so what we’re looking at is a
we’re looking at is a significant change in the
significant change in the pattern of the economy and the
pattern of the economy and the long-term
pattern of the economy and the long—term market trend, so it
long-term market trend, so it is
long—term market trend, so it is highlighting the risks, and
is highlighting the risks, and we will move away to
we will move away to more local supply with a lot of smaller
supply with a lot of smaller companies and local politicians
companies and [oral politicians able to
companies and local politicians able to be involved with
able to be involved with addressing some of these
addressing some of these issues. Do you think this is a
issues. Do you think this is a trend that we could see going
trend that we could see going forward, or is this a one off,
forward, or is this a one off, unusual circumstance, because
unusual circumstance, because of this global pandemic, there
of this global pandemic, there needs to be these sorts of
needs to be these sorts of actions taken on the part of
actions taken on the part of governments?
governments? I think this is a much
much longer term multi- decade trend. The
much longer term multi— decade trend. The problem
has been distorting market prices and then you see
stagnation of productivity and wage growth, and this has led
wage growth, and this has lad to a
wage growth, and this has led to a rampant change in
to a rampant change in the political agenda and most
political agenda and most particularly what we have seen
particularty what we have seen recently is
particularly what we have seen recently is more and more
recently is more and more politicians being voted in with
politicians being voted in with a nationalistic agenda, and
a nationalistic agenda, and this is part of that trend.
this is part of that trend. when
this is part of that trend. When we look at specifically
When we look at specifically pharmaceutical companies, and
pharmaceutical companies, and the enormous amount of
the enormous amount of investment they have to put
investment they have to put into research and development,
into research and development, if this is what will be the new
if this is what will be the new trend, what will that mean in
trend, what will that mean in terms of that investment they
terms of that investment they have to put in? It will
have to put in? It will probably mean that while we
probably mean that whila we still
probably mean that while we still have global majors, we
still have global majors, we will start to find that there
will start to find that there are a lot more local suppliers
are a lot more [oral suppliers who do
are a lot more local suppliers who do deals with the majors to
who do deals with the majors to get [oral
who do deals with the majors to get local supply into the
get local supply into the markets. Good to talk to you,
markets. Good to talk to you, thanks for getting up so early.
Uber says it had a record number of ride bookings
in March and April — a strong sign of recovery
in its core business.
Uber saw demand for rides plummet during the pandemic,
although its food delivery business made up some
of the shortfall.
It’s still losing money though, and took a $600 million hit
from a settlement with UK drivers giving them
more employee benefits.
It also faces pressure from the Biden administration
that has promised more rights for ‘gig economy’ workers.
Derrick Fung is Chief Executive of Cardify,
a market research company that tracks consumer spending.
He’s in Toronto.
Alert to use. So, Uber, talk us through
Alert to use. So, Uher, talk us through the
Alert to use. So, Uber, talk us through the outlook for Uber
through the outlook for Uber because of course if the
because of course if the landmark ruling in the High
landmark mling in the High Court
landmark ruling in the High Court in London is something to
Court in London is something to go
Court in London is something to so by.
Court in London is something to go by, it could be under a lot
go by, it could be under a lot of pressure in other countries
of pressure in other countries around the world in terms of
around the world in terms of sis
around the world in terms of gig workers. Good to be back on
gig workers. Good to be back on the show, so I would say that
the show, so I would say that Uher
the show, so I would say that Uber had a great quarter, they
Uber had a great quarter, they released
released date on Monday, we tracked millions of
tracked millions of debit and credit cards across, globally,
credit cards across, globally, and we had a great quarter, and
and we had a great quarter, and what we saw is that consumers
what we saw is that consumers continue to use the service as
continue to use the service as well as Uber Eads, and the gig
well as Uber Eads, and the gig economy that some of the Biden
economy that some of the Biden administration has in the short
administration has in the short term, in the long—term Uber has
term, in the long-term Uber has a ton of
term, in the long—term Uber has a ton of tailwind, it had one
a ton of tailwind, it had one of its best quarters ever, and
of its best quarters ever, and it’s almost back to pre—
it’s almost back to pre— covered levels, so we are
covered levels, so we are really excited to see this
really excited to see this company continuing to thrive in
company continuing to thrive in the post Covid world. What you
the post Covid world. what you are saying is
the post Covid world. What you are saying is Uber is
are saying is Uber is definitely here to stay and
definitely here to stay and these changes that we will have
these changes that we will have to adjust to probably as more
to adjust to probably as more countries give benefits to
countries give benefits to workers who work for companies
workers who work for companies like Uber, they can withstand
like Uber, they ran withstand that
like Uber, they can withstand that storm. Definitely here to
that storm. Definitely here to stay, even as Uber of these of
stay, even as Uber of these of these employees, these
these employees, these employers don’t want to be
employers don’t want to be full—time employees, so while
full-time employees, so while they will be
full—time employees, so while they will be a short—term head
they will be a short-term head to
they will be a short—term head to profitability based on the
to profitability based on the surveys that we run on the
surveys that we nm on the platform,
surveys that we run on the platform, 28% of consumers over
platform, 2896 of consumers over the next
platform, 28% of consumers over the next couple of months will
the next couple of months will need to use Uber more than
need to use Uber more than before, many of them don’t want
before, many of them don’t want to use the pool service and
to use the pool service and share cars with other
share cars with other individuals, but what we’re
individuals, but what we’re noticing is that as more
noticing is that as more consumers travel and book
consumers travel and book travels, and rideshare as a
travels, and rideshare as a category will be a big part of
category will be a big part of the travel experience for them.
the travel experience for them. It certainly is, I’m sure.
It certainly is, I’m sure. Thank you for your time, good
Thank you for your time, good to
Tensions between Australia and its biggest
Tensions between Australia and its biggest
trading partner, China, have escalated after Beijing
suspended the Strategic Economic Dialogue mechanism
between the two countries indefinitely.
Mariko Oi and our Asia business team are looking at this
for us.
Talk us through the strategic economic dialogue mechanism.
economic dialogue mechanism. What does that mean. What is
what does that mean. what is suspended
What does that mean. What is suspended indefinitely here?
suspended indefinitely here? The two countries used to have
The two countries used to have this regular economic meeting,
this regular economic meeting, but the last meeting under that
but the last meeting under that mechanism was in Beijing in
mechanism was in Beijing in 2017. So it has been a while.
2017. So it has been a while. Nevertheless this announcement
Neverthelass this announcement saw
Nevertheless this announcement saw the Australian dollar
saw the Australian dollar falling quite sharply against
falling quite sharply against the US dollar because, as you
the US dollar because, as you said, China is Australia’s
said, China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and
biggest trading partner and todars
biggest trading partner and today’s announcement really
todars announcement really shows
today’s announcement really shows that tensions will not
shows that tensions will not ease any time soon. Now, the
ease any time soon. Now, the relationship has started to
relationship has started to deteriorate. If you remember
deteriorate. If you remember back in 2018 Australia became
back in 2018 Australia became the first country to ban
the first country to ban China’s while away from its 56
China’s while away from its 56 network. There wasn’t even
network. There wasn’t even further last year when Canberra
further last year when Canberra rallad
called for an international enquiry into the origins of the
enquiry into the origins of the Covid—19 pandemic. So that has
Covid-19 pandemic. So that has prompted a
Covid—19 pandemic. So that has prompted a number of tariffs on
prompted a number of tariffs on Australian experts from weeds,
Australian experts from weeds, beef barley, you name it.
beef barlay, you name it. Affecting
beef barley, you name it. Affecting quite a chunk of
Affecting quite a chunk of Australia’s exports to China ——
Australia’s exports to China -- wheat.
Australia’s exports to China —— wheat. Then last month they
wheat. Then last month they cancelled two deals between the
cancelled two deals between the state of Victoria and China
state of Victoria and China under Beijing’s Belt and Road
under Beijing’s Belt and Road Initiative, which Beijing did
Initiative, which Beijing did not respond well to. Then this
not respond well to. Then this week we heard from Australia
week we heard from Australia saying that a Chinese company’s
saying that a Chinese company’s controversial lease on Darwin’s
controversial lease on Darwin’s point was under review and
point was under review and could be scrapped. Tensions
could be scrapped. Tensions have been high for a while.
have been high for a while. This announcement doesn’t
This announcement doesn’t exactly come as a surprise, but
exactly come as a surprise, but let’s not forget an Australian
let’s not forget an Australian journalist, Ken Lay, used to
journalist, Ken lay, used to work for
journalist, Ken Lay, used to work for a China state
work for a China state broadcaster, has been
broadcaster, has been detained for over six months amid these
for over six months amid these heightened tensions. Some saw
heightened tensions. Some saw her arrest as a possible
her arrest as a possible retaliation by Beijing. It does
retaliation by Beijing. It does not look like the relationship
not look like the relationship between the two will improve
between the two will improve anytime soon stop thank you
anytime soon stop thank you very much. Mariko Oi in
very much. Mariko Oi in Singapore.
Stay with us on BBC News.
Still to come: Why your password could be about to
expire — for the last time.
I, Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, do hereby swear to be faithful
to the Republic of South Africa.
After six years of construction and numerous delays,
the Channel Tunnel has been formally opened by the Queen
and President Mitterrand.
The tunnel is not yet ready for passengers and freight
services to begin.
For centuries, Christianity and Islam struggled for supremacy.
Now the Pope’s visit symbolises their willingness to coexist.
Roger Bannister became the first man in the world
to run a mile in underfour minutes.
Memories of victory as the VE celebrations
reach their climax.
This night is dedicated to everyone who believes
in a future of peace and freedom.
This is BBC World News.
The latest headlines:
The United States backs an initiative to waive
intellectual property protections for coronavirus
vaccines.
One of Hong Kong’s most prominent pro—democracy
activists is sentenced to ten months prison for marking
the the anniversary of Tiananmen square.
As you’ve been hearing, Facebook says it will continue
to stop Donald Trump from directly using its platforms.
The social media giant’s new Oversight Board ruled
the former President had broken its standards and rules
by appearing to sympathise with January’s attack on the US
But the Oversight Board told Facebook to re—consider
whether the ban should be indefinite.
Board member Alan Rusbridger, former editor of the Guardian
newspaper, explained their decision to Rory
Cellan—Jones.
Our advice was the more open and be more rigourous, big
and be more rigourous, big dear
and be more rigourous, big clear up. Give the reasons for
clear up. Give the reasons for what you are doing and if you
what you are doing and if you want to ban him for life that’s
want to ban him for life that’s fine, but say why. If you want
fine, but say why. If you want to impose a shorter burn than
to impose a shorter burn than tell us what the conditions are
tell us what the conditions are and whether he has to satisfy
and whether he has to satisfy certain conditions before he is
certain conditions before he is allowed back on. So it’s
allowed back on. So it’s really, I mean, quite a lot of
really, I mean, quite a lot of our
really, I mean, quite a lot of ourjudgements so far, we have
ourjudgements so far, we have criticised some of the wording
criticised some of the wording and some of the vagueness
and some of the vagueness around some of Facebook’s
around some of Facebook’s policies and also a certain
policies and also a certain lack of openness. But
policies and also a certain lack of openness. Butjust to
lack of openness. But just to be clear,
lack of openness. Butjust to be clear, they are obliged,
be clear, they are obliged, under the way they have already
under the way they have already set up, to
under the way they have already setup, to obey your rulings in
set up, to obey your rulings in terms of
setup, to obey your rulings in terms of taking
terms of taking content down or putting it back up again. But
putting it back up again. But they don’t have to do
they don’t have to do everything you say. For
everything you say. For instance, they don’t have to go
instance, they don’t have to go through all this series of
through all this series of reviews of the way they behaved
reviews of the way they behaved duﬂng
reviews of the way they behaved during the run up to 6
reviews of the way they behaved during the run up to 6January.
during the mn up to Sjanuary. That is up to
during the run up to 6January. That is up to them. That’s
That is up to them. That’s completely right. They have to
completely right. They have to come back within six months and
come back within six months and come up with a better way of
come up with a better way of defining the period of this
defining the period of this ban, if it is to be continued.
ban, if it is to be continued. We thought it was important
We thought it was important that they should look openly at
that they should look openly at themselves and look at their
themselves and look at their own part in what happened on 6
own part in what happened on 6 january. Now,
own part in what happened on 6 January. Now, they don’t have
january. Now, they don’t have to do that,
January. Now, they don’t have to do that, but we have said it
to do that, but we have said it openly and it might be a bit
openly and it might be a bit embarrassing for them if they
embarrassing for them if they didn’t. So what happens
didn’t. So what happens at the end of this, does this mean
end of this, does this mean that you will actually have to
that you will actually have to make a final decision again on
make a final decision again on whether or not Donald Trump is
whether or not Donald Tmmp is banned
whether or not Donald Trump is banned for life from Facebook.
banned for life from Facebook. Well, I hope not. People have
Well, I hope not. People have said, the Oversight Board, is
said, the Oversight Board, is it fair,
said, the Oversight Board, is itfair, is it
said, the Oversight Board, is it fair, is it trying to pass
it fair, is it trying to pass of the
of the decision, we help with this family back in the NZ this
this family back in the NZ this is
is a decision for you to take, not us. But the problem is you
not us. But the problem is you haven’t really got the rules or
haven’t really got the mles or the
haven’t really got the rules or the processes or the openness
the processes or the openness to do this and
to do this and so make the decision, but make it on rules
decision, but make it on mles you ran
decision, but make it on rules you can explain and which
you can explain and which everybody can understand. So I
everybody ran understand. So I hope this
everybody can understand. So I hope this shouldn’t come back
hope this shouldn’t come back to us for a decision. We shall
to us for a decision. We shall keep an eye on that story.
Bill Gates predicted the computer password would be
obsolete by 200A.
And yet 17 years later we are still protecting our
vital data behind a dog’s name or a child’s birthday.
A survey of consumers in the US and Europe found a fifth
of people use the same password for everything —
and almost as many use pet names orfamily names.
But with tech such as facial recognition becoming more
widespread, could 2021 finally see off the password?
Sarah Munro is Director of Biometrics at Onfido.
Welcome to the programme. Will
Welcome to the programme. will the
Welcome to the programme. Will the password become a thing of
the password become a thing of the past soon, in your opinion
the past soon, in your opinion was alart
the past soon, in your opinion was alert thanks for having me,
was alart thanks for having me, Sally. I
was alart thanks for having me, Sally. Ithink
was alert thanks for having me, Sally. I think next year might
Sally. I think next year might be a little bit too soon. Most
be a little bit too soon. Most peopla
be a little bit too soon. Most people have over 100 accounts
peopla have over 100 accounts with
people have over 100 accounts with passwords associated with
with passwords associated with them. In our survey,
with passwords associated with them. In oursurvey, as
with passwords associated with them. In our survey, as he
them. In our survey, as he said, 4096 of
them. In our survey, as he said, 40% of people for their
said, 4096 of peopla for their passwords
said, 40% of people for their passwords might be extinct in
passwords might be extinct in five years. More than half said
five years. More than half said they would
they would use biometrics, facial or a fingerprint offered
facial or a fingerprint offered instead. 50 we think people are
instead. So we think people are ready to
instead. 50 we think people are ready to some extent waiting
ready to some extent waiting for passwords to disappear but
for passwords to disappear but AMAB too soon. I definitely
AMAB too soon. I definitely soon. When it comes to facial
soon. when it comes to facial recognition
soon. When it comes to facial recognition how good is the
recognition how good is the technology now? There were
technology now? There were issues depending on colour of
issues depending on colour of skin, age, that kind of thing.
skin, age, that kind of thing. That’s a very good question. We
That’s a very good question. We invest heavily in that area to
invest heavily in that area to make sure that our technology
make sure that our technology is fair and to make sure we can
is fair and to make sure we ran distinguish
is fair and to make sure we can distinguish between skin tone
distinguish between skin tone and again those kinds of
and again those kinds of things, that there are lots of
things, that there are lots of strides being made in that
strides being made in that area. But you know, when you
area. But you know, when you say lots of
say lots of strides how close are we
are we that it is so reliable we can say goodbye to the
we ran say goodbye to the password,
we can say goodbye to the password, do you think was
password, do you think was yellow eye can only talk about
yellow eye can only talk about Onfido. The work we did
Onfido. The work we did recently means that the
recently means that the difference in skin tone is
difference in skin tone is negligible stop whether
negligible stop whether somebody has a darker or a
somebody has a darker or a lighter skin tone, we treat
lighter skin tone, we treat them the same. When it comes to
them the same. when it comes to passwords
them the same. When it comes to passwords themselves, are you
passwords themselves, are you good at remembering all your
good at remembering all your passwords and having multiple
passwords and having multiple passwords or are you guilty
passwords or are you guilty like many of us of having only
like many of us of having only a few? I have quite a few
a few? I have quite a few different ones and I think
different ones and I think there are some hacks to try to
there are some hacks to try to remember. There are things you
remember. There are things you ran try and do.
remember. There are things you can try and do. One is,
ran try and do. One is, firstly, the
can try and do. One is, firstly, the company you are
firstly, the company you are dealing with offers a second
dealing with offers a second factor, are use a password and
factor, are use a password and a one—time pin, that makes your
a one-time pin, that makes your account
a one—time pin, that makes your account was secure. Use things
account was secure. Use things like sentences, rather than
like sentences, rather than just one word because that is
just one word because that is harder to remember. They are
harder to remember. They are things you ran
harder to remember. They are things you can do. You can also
things you ran do. You ran also do things to
things you can do. You can also do things to keep your data
do things to keep your data safe. Often you see on social
safe. Often you see on social media business. Don’t answer
media business. Don’t answer those quizzes, they are
those quizzes, they are honeypots of data for somebody
honeypots of data for somebody else. You don’t know how the
else. You don’t know how the data is going to be stored,
data is going to be stored, what it is going to be used
what it is going to be used for, and how that date is going
for, and how that date is going to be protected. The data
to be protected. The data becomes somebody else’s so just
becomes somebody else’s so just to do those uses, that is
to do those uses, that is another way to protect your
another way to protect your data. All right. Brilliant top
data. All right. Brilliant top tips there. Sarah Munro, thanks
tips there. Sarah Munro, thanks for being in the programme.
for being in the programme. Really appreciate it. Thanks
Really appreciate it. Thanks for having me. Before we go,
for having me. Before we go, financial markets in Asia.
financial markets in Asia. Japan is open for the first
japan is open for the first time in
Japan is open for the first time in five days today
time in five days today and it is down slightly. It was up
is down slightly. It was up eartier, it
is down slightly. It was up earlier, it had a jump of 1.8%
eartier, it had a jump of 1.896 eartier.
earlier, it had a jump of 1.8% earlier. Obviously things have
eartier. Obviously things have changed.
earlier. Obviously things have changed. Thank you for your
changed. Thank you for your company. I will see you soon.
Hello there.
The weather is set to change a hit this weekend
as the wind direction changes.
At the moment, though, we’ve still got that cool
northerly airflow and that means more showers, heavy
showers again during Thursday.
Certainly a dramatic day on Wednesday, lots
of downpours, hail and some thunder in there as well.
A lot of those showers have faded away, so we’ve got
a cold start.
May be a frosty start in places on Thursday morning.
Not as cold in the southwest where there is more
cloud moving in.
That’s going to bring a bit of rain and drizzle that
will run its way along the south coast through
the English Channel for a while.
But could be a bit snowy to start with in Scotland.
Snow levels will tend to rise, but these heavy showers
will move across Scotland into Northern England.
Fewer showers for Northern Ireland, while some may see
some sharp showers in the southeast corner of England
for a while, there should be fewer showers through
the Midlands, Wales and southern England.
Temperatures still only 9—12 degrees.
Another chilly feeling day despite some sunshine.
As we head into the evening we will see those showers
continuing to move their way southwards, fading away
for most inland areas overnight.
That means temperatures are going to fall away.
It’s going to be another cold night.
There is a risk of a frost, but may not be quite as cold
by Friday morning.
Plenty of sunshine to start the day.
We will see the cloud developing, and a few showers
breaking out as we head into the afternoon.
Most of those heavier and perhaps thundery showers
with hail confined to eastern Scotland and some eastern parts
of England, turning drier further west.
Temperatures should be a little bit higher on Friday,
but still no better than 1A, maybe 15 degrees.
Now into the weekend, the changes I promised.
We’ve got another area of low pressure.
That is going to strengthen the wind and these weather
fronts will bring some rain up from the southwest.
Looks like it’s going to be a southerly wind that brings
that rain and eventually that will introduce some warmer air,
especially during the second half of the weekend.
Wet weather, though, I think for England and Wales
on Saturday and for a while in Northern Ireland,
the rain moves slowly northwards into Scotland
where it’s going to be a cold day here.
Temperatures across England and Wales away from the north
should get up to M or 15 degrees.
Maybe a touch warmer than that in the southeast if it
brightens up as the rain clears later in the day.
We should be turning more showery, I think,
during Sunday and with that warmer air across most areas,
19 or 20 as possible in the southeast.
It cools on Monday, but the showers will continue.
The UK’s most iconic crime drama.
Jack, how much time have I got?
Every series, every episode.
We need to find out from these bodies who attacked them and why.
Yeah. I worked it out.
Silent Witness from the very beginning:
all episodes streaming now, only on BBC iPlayer.
Linda Radlett was not only my favourite cousin...
..but then and for many years, my favourite human being.
WHISTLING PROJECTILE
CRASHING 0h!
My name is Ian Wright. You might know me best as a footballer.
In many ways, I’ve been lucky,
but growing up, there was a lot of violence at home.
Facing up to those memories has made me want to talk to others.
I’m eating my cornﬂakes
and the next thing I’m on the ﬂoor.
For him, it was all about these mind games.
I just felt all the time that I was on edge.
I always remember hating him so much.
Always used to promise her
that I’m going to get us out of it butjust didn’t know how.
We can’t ignore it. We need to talk.
We believe that many of those killed were not soldiers at all.
I fought for my country.
And I’m proud of what I did.
Well, he was here a minute ago. Has anyone seen Cheeky Monkey?
He’s there! He’s there! Where?
In the case!
Aargh!
End of the pier!
Hey! Pack it in, you. Calm down.
This is exactly their level.
Hi, folks. I’mJason Manford and this new quiz show is Unbeatable.
I’m not showing off here, that’s just what it’s called.
It’s the quiz where we don’tjust want the answer... Chris Evans.
"we want the unbeatable answer. Yeah!
Contestants will battle against each other, but who will win big...
whoo! "and prove themselves Unbeatable?
Good morning, welcome to Breakfast with Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson.
Our headlines today:
French boats head forJersey in a row overfishing rights —
two royal navy ships have been sent to patrol the area.
This is one of many small ports that line the Normandy coast.
And about six boats have left from here this morning,
but they’re going to be joined by other boats along their way.
And they think by the time they reachJersey, there’ll be
50 to 100 small boats.
Up to A0 million people can go to the polls today,
on what’s being billed as Super Thursday.
Good morning.
I’m here at Somerset House in London, where Team GB Olympic
and Paralympic athletes are gathering to collect their
official kit for the Tokyo Games, with 78 days to go.
Meanwhile, in the Champions League there’ll be an all English
Champions League final.
Last night Chelsea swept aside the Real Madrid to set up a showdown
against Manchester City in Istanbul later this month.
Good morning.
We’ve had some snow showers across Scotland and northern England last
Scotland and northern England last night. Through today the snow level
night. Through today the snow level will rise back into the hills. For
will rise hack into the hills. For the rest
will rise back into the hills. For the rest of the country it is
the rest of the country it is sunshine and showers. We lose the
sunshine and showers. We lose the rain currently moving across the
rain currently moving across the English Channel. Details coming up.
Good morning.
It’s Thursday, the 6th of May.
Our top story.
Two Royal Navy ships have been sent toJersey overnight,
over fears of a possible blockade by French boats, in an escalating
row over fishing rights.
Around a hundred fishing vessels are expected to stage a protest
today at the island’s main port, St Helier.
Our reporter Aruna Iyengar has this report.
Choppy waters ahead in Anglo—French relations.
One of many French fishing boats setting out forJersey this morning.
They are protesting about difficulties in getting
licences to fish around the Channel Islands.
It is the latest skirmish in a deepening post—Brexit dispute.
All fishing boats are required to have a licence to fish
in Jersey’s waters.
To get one, French boat operators must show a history
of fishing in the area.
But the French say new additional requirements were added
without notice, including new rules about where ships can go,
the number of days they can spend at sea and what machinery
can be used.
Some French fishermen have threatened to blockade
the port of St Helier, though French officials say
the protests will be peaceful.
Earlier this week, the French Maritime Minister
threatened to cut off the island’s electricity.
France supplies 95% ofJersey’s power through
three underwater cables.
It has angered of the public, most certainly, and we’ve seen
emergency meetings going on tonight at government level
to see what can be done.
But most certainly our advice to ministers is to not capitulate.
Downing Street says it wants to see tensions de—escalated,
but as a precautionary measure it has still sent Royal Navy patrol
boats HMS Severn HMS Tamar from Portsmouth toJersey.
Aruna Iyengar, BBC News.
The fishing boats taking part in today’s protest left the Normandy
coast in the early hours of this morning.
Our Europe correspondentJean Mackenzie watched some of them go.
This is one of many small ports that line the Normandy coast,
and about six boats have left from here this morning.
But they’re going to be joined by other boats along their way.
And they think by the time they reachJersey, there will be
50 to 100 small boats.
Now, the fishermen say that they’re going to protest peacefully.
They’ve got no plans to block the port.
They won’t even be fishing.
They just want to show their presence, to show how
upset and angry they are.
They didn’t see this coming.
They didn’t think that they were going to have their rights
or their ability to fish inJersey waters, impacted by Brexit.
They have been fishing in these waters, most
of them, their whole lives.
Many of these fishermen catch more than 50% of their fish
from Jersey’s waters.
Now, under the Brexit deal, they still have the right
to fish in Jersey’s waters.
But now they need licenses.
They have got their licenses back.
And they say that there are a whole load of conditions
attached to these licenses, which mean that they cannot fish
as much as they want to, or as much as they need to.
So it’s that that they’re protesting.
They are asking for these licenses to be reconsidered,
and to be able to fish more freely, like they used to be able to.
Jean MacKenzie with the latest.
jean Mackenzie with the latest. After
Jean MacKenzie with the latest. After seven we will take your life
After seven we will take your life to St Helier. Robert Hall will be

Citation: BBC News, 01:40 06/05/2021, BBC1 Scotland, 260 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/183D139A?bcast=134407676 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)