This is BBC News.
These are the latest headlines in the UK and around the world.
MI5 and counter—terrorism police are investigating yesterday’s
explosion in a taxi in Liverpool yesterday which killed one man.
The taxi driver has been named locally as David Perry.
Detectives from Counter Terrorism Police North West
have arrested three men following the explosion,
which happened just before 11am on Remembrance Sunday.
UK government advisers recommend the Covid—19 vaccine
booster programme should be extended to include healthy
40— to 49—year—olds, and 16— and17—year—olds should come
forward for a second dose.
When you are called for your booster
when you are rallad for your booster dose in
When you are called for your booster dose in the next phase you can come
dose in the next phase you ran come forward
dose in the next phase you can come forward confident that the benefits
forward confident that the benefits in preventing serious Covid—19
forward confident that the benefits in preventing serious Covid—19far
in preventing serious Covid-19 far outweigh any
in preventing serious Covid—19far outweigh any risks.
Belarus is warned it faces more sanctions,
including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
Rhe plight of migrants from Afghanistan.
We’ve a special report from the Serbia—Romania border.
Six months after a damning report into the BBC’s handling
of Princess Diana’s 1995 Panorama interview, her brother tells
the Corporation he believes there’s more to come out.
It’s clear to me that there are certain people who were in the BBC
who have behaved in a way
that is tmly abysmal, and possibly criminal.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK, or around the world.
The Mayor of Liverpool has praised the taxi driver,
injured in yesterday’s car explosion in the city,
for his heroic efforts.
Joanne Anderson said the man who’s been named locally as David Perry,
had managed to divert what, she said, could have been
an absolutely awful disaster at the Liverpool Women’s Hospital.
The UK’s Security Service, MI5, is assisting counter—terrorism
police with the investigation.
Three men have been arrested.
This report by our correspondent James Reynolds
contains flashing images.
The police say they are working at speed to establish
the circumstances of this, the car explosion just outside
the Liverpool Women’s Hospital in central Liverpool.
It happened shortly before 11 o’clock yesterday morning,
at a time when Remembrance Day services were about to begin
across the country.
The driver survived the blast.
The passenger, who has not been named, was killed.
Unfortunately, I can confirm that one person has died and another has
been taken to hospital, where he is being treated
for his injuries, which, thankfully, are not life—threatening.
So far we understand that the car involved was a taxi,
which pulled up at the hospital shortly before the
explosion occurred.
In the Kensington area of Liverpool, around
a mile from the explosion, three men, aged 21, 26
and 29, were arrested under the Terrorism Act.
This gives the authorities the power to hold detainees for up to M
days without charge.
And late at night, a number of homes in Liverpool’s Rutland Avenue
and nearby Cumberland Avenue were evacuated.
They’re reported to be close to a house which was raided
by the police in the hours after the incident.
Counter Terrorism Police North West are leading
the overall investigation.
They’re supported by officers from Merseyside Police,
and the security service, MI5, is also assisting.
Investigators say they’re keeping an open mind
as to what caused the explosion.
James Reynolds, BBC News.
Earlier I spoke with our Security correspondent Frank Gardner
about the explosion.
ﬂ
I spoke to our correspondent Andy Gill earlier. Liverpool Women’s
Gill earlier. Liverpool Women’s Hospital remains largely sealed off
Hospital remains largely sealad off this morning,
Hospital remains largely sealed off this morning, it’s a large area with
this morning, it’s a large area with a big footprint and there is police
a big footprint and there is police table around the perimeter and
table around the perimeter and police officers are standing guard
police officers are standing guard at regular intervals around the
at regular intervals around the perimeter. Visiting is restricted
perimeter. Visiting is restricted but appointments are going ahead
but appointments are going ahead with peopla
but appointments are going ahead with people driving and having their
with peopla driving and having their cars
with people driving and having their cars checked by police before they
cars checked by police before they go in. The hospital is one of three
go in. The hospital is one of three locations in Liverpool where this
locations in Liverpool where this investigation is centred, the other,
investigation is centred, the other, as james’s
investigation is centred, the other, as James’s report mentioned, to the
as james’s report mentioned, to the north of
as James’s report mentioned, to the north of the
as james’s report mentioned, to the north of the city
as James’s report mentioned, to the north of the city where three men
north of the city where three men were arrested and another about a
were arrested and another about a mile south of here were a house is
mile south of here were a house is being searched and a number of homes
being searched and a number of homes were evacuated, some families had to
were evacuated, some families had to go into emergency accommodation
go into emergency accommodation provided by Liverpool Council.
provided by Liverpool Council. Counterterrorism officers are
Counterterrorism officers are keeping an open mind about what lies
keeping an open mind about what lies behind this. But as we know the
behind this. But as we know the explosion took place just before 11
explosion took place just before 11 o’clock, and that was the time
o’clock, and that was the time across the country but also here in
across the country but also here in Liverpool where the city’s
Liverpool where the city’s remembrance service was about to
remembrance service was about to take place at the Anglican Cathedral
take place at the Anglican Cathedral which was a short walk from this
which was a short walk from this hospital, and it is unusual
which was a short walk from this hospital, and it is unusualfor the
hospital, and it is unusualfor the remembrance service here to take
remembrance service here to take place at that location. It normally
place at that location. It normally takes place in the city centre but
takes place in the city centre but it couldn’t this year because of
it couldn’t this year because of roadworks. The Home Secretary Priti
roadworks. The Home Secretary Priti Patel is being kept up—to—date with
Patel is being kept up-to-date with events, a
Patel is being kept up—to—date with events, a government minister told
events, a government minister told the BBC this morning that this is an
the BBC this morning that this is an emerging situation. Merseyside
emerging situation. Merseyside Police say people can expect to see
Police say people ran expect to see more patrols
Police say people can expect to see more patrols and officers on the
more patrols and officers on the street in Liverpool today as part of
street in Liverpool today as part of a reassurance plan. Our security
a reassurance plan. Our security correspondent Frank Gardner told me
correspondent Frank Gardner told me more about how the security
more about how the security operation will be going on now, with
operation will be going on now, with police and His
operation will be going on now, with police and MI5 working together.
Yeah, there are essentially three bodies involved in the
investigation, Merseyside Police, Counter Terrorism Police North West
who are leading the investigation, they are being supported
by the security service MI5 which James mentioned.
There are a number of different strands they are going down
with this.
One of the first lines of enquiries would normally be any
forensic evidence that can be
gathered from the scene of the explosion.
That is going to be much harder to do because as you have
seen from the pictures fire very quickly engulfed the taxi so there
was this initial explosion, it seemed, which caused the driver to
run out of the vehicle and it then simply caught fire.
That would have destroyed a lot of the explosive
residue that you would normally expect to be examined by the
forensic explosive laboratory technicians.
There may well be other forensic evidence they can gather
from other locations in the city.
But that bit is going to be harder.
MI5 will be looking at their known list of suspects who could possibly
be in any way connected to this.
But they are not giving away anything at
the moment on this.
They are unlikely to say anything publicly.
Counterterrorism policing do have a lot of resources
at their disposal.
There will be a lot of digital investigations going on into this,
looking at any phone calls, any spikes in conversations.
So far, they are keeping a completely open
mind, as you heard, about what is the motivation behind this.
Yes, international jihadism, or terrorism,
is one of the lines but
only one of the lines they are looking at,
and they are not coming
down on one side or the other, not ruling it out or in at the moment
which is frustrating for us because we are looking for answers
but they are not giving them yet.
Frank Gardner.
The UK Government’s vaccine advisors say all over 405 should be offered
a booster of a Covid vaccine.
TheJoint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation says a third jab
would top up protection and help limit the spread of
the virus overwinter.
They’ve also advised that 16— and17—year—olds,
who were initially offered only a single dose, should now get
Chair of theJCVI, Professor Wei Shen Lim,
announced the two updates to the booster programme.
The first update relates to the booster programme. Could I have the
booster programme. Could I have the first slide, please? Just as a
first slide, please? just as a reminder,
first slide, please? Just as a reminder, the current advice in the
reminder, the current advice in the booster programme is that persons
booster programme is that persons aged over 50 years, those adults in
aged over 50 years, those adults in a clinical at risk group, front line
a clinical at risk group, front line health and social care workers and
health and social rare workers and dose
health and social care workers and close contacts of persons who are
close contacts of persons who are immunosuppressed should have a
immunosuppressed should have a booster vaccine six months following
booster vaccine six months following completion of their primary course,
completion of their primary course, essentially, have a third vaccine
essentially, have a third vaccine dose six months after the second
dose six months after the second dose. Can I have the next slide,
dose. (“an I have the next slide, please? We
dose. Can I have the next slide, please? We are advising today that
please? We are advising today that the booster programme is extended to
the booster programme is extended to persons aged 40—49 years as well. As
persons aged 40-49 years as well. As previously, the
persons aged 40—49 years as well. As previously, the booster dose is
previously, the booster dose is advised six months after the second
advised six months after the second dose, and either the Pfizer BioNTech
dose, and either the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine or the Moderna vaccine can
vaccine or the Moderna vaccine can be used as the booster dose,
be used as the booster dose, regardless of the type of vaccine
regardless of the type of vaccine received for the first two doses in
received for the first two doses in the primary course. You may remember
the primary course. You may remember that in earty
the primary course. You may remember that in early August we advised a
that in earty August we advised a first
that in early August we advised a first dose of the Pfizer BioNTech
first dose of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine for 16 and 17—year—olds who
vaccine for 16 and 17-year-olds who do not have
vaccine for 16 and 17—year—olds who do not have an underlying health
do not have an underlying health condition that puts them at higher
condition that puts them at higher risk from severe Covid—19.
m:
We said at the time and would review the data and that a second dose may
the data and that a second dose may well be advise command that is
well be advise command that is indeed the case. We have reviewed
indeed the use. We have reviewed the
indeed the case. We have reviewed the recent information regarding the
the recent information regarding the safety and benefits of a second
safety and benefits of a second dose, and we are advising that 16
dose, and we are advising that 16 and 17—year—olds who have had a
and 17-year-olds who have had a first dose
and 17—year—olds who have had a first dose of the Pfizer BioNTech
first dose of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine be offered a second dose of
vaccine be offered a second dose of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine. As a
the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine. As a reminder, the first vaccine dose
reminder, the first vaccine dose gives a high level of protection
gives a high level of protection against serious disease, and that
against serious disease, and that high level of protection we know
high level of protection we know lasts for at least 12—16 weeks. The
lasts for at least 12-16 weeks. The second dose,
lasts for at least 12—16 weeks. The second dose, nonetheless, reinforces
second dose, nonetheless, reinforces that protection from the first dose
that protection from the first dose and it is important in extending the
and it is important in extending the duration of protection, not
and it is important in extending the duration of protection, notjust for
duration of protection, not just for the
duration of protection, notjust for the winter months and Christmas, but
the winter months and Christmas, but we are also looking into 2022 and
we are also looking into 2022 and beyond.
Anna Collinsonjoins us now.
The booster programme being extended now to over 405. What more do we
now to over 405. what more do we hear this
now to over 405. What more do we hear this morning about the impact
hear this morning about the impact of the booster programme? While
of the booster programme? while Covid
of the booster programme? While Covid vaccine obviously provide
Covid vaccine obviously provide excellent protection, we have seen
excellent protection, we have seen that in the data the level of
that in the data the level of hospitalisations from Covid this
hospitalisations from Covid this year at this stage of the year
year at this stage of the year compared to last year is much lower.
compared to last year is much lower. Their power ran
compared to last year is much lower. Their power can wane, that’s why
Their power ran wane, that’s why these
Their power can wane, that’s why these booster programme has been
these booster programme has been brought in, initially for those over
brought in, initially for those over 50.
brought in, initially for those over 50, young adults with health
50, young adults with health conditions and front line health
conditions and front line health rare
conditions and front line health care workers and so far more than 12
rare workers and so far more than 12 million peopla in
care workers and so far more than 12 million people in that group have
million peopla in that group have had
million people in that group have had that booster vaccine. Now they
had that booster vaccine. Now they are wanting to expand it further,
are wanting to expand it further, saying that boosters are safe, they
saying that boosters are safe, they have identified no new safety
have identified no new safety concerns, the majority of side
concerns, the majority of side effects they have found, the sore
effects they have found, the sore arm or tiredness, they want to
arm or tiredness, they want to expand further based on some
expand further based on some evidence that the UK Health Security
evidence that the UK Health Security Agency has put forward suggesting
Agency has put forward suggesting boosters provide 90% protection to
boosters provide 9096 protection to over
boosters provide 90% protection to over 505 after two weeks. That’s
over 505 after two weeks. That’s just for
over 50s after two weeks. That’s just for symptomatic infections. 50
just for symptomatic infections. So it is thought it is even higher
it is thought it is even higher protection from severe illness and
protection from severe illness and from death. 50 the hope is by
from death. So the hope is by extending
from death. 50 the hope is by extending this booster
from death. So the hope is by extending this booster programme it
extending this booster programme it is going to provide even more
is going to provide even more protection this winter. They have
protection this winter. They have also announced the extension to 16
also announced the extension to 16 and 17—year—olds who currently could
and 17-year-olds who currently could only get one
and 17—year—olds who currently could only get one dose but they are now
only get one dose but they are now saying they ran
only get one dose but they are now saying they can get two doses. Yes,
saying they ran get two doses. Yes, that
saying they can get two doses. Yes, that decision for the first dose was
that decision for the first dose was made over the summer. The idea being
made over the summer. The idea being that they wanted to protect a 16 and
that they wanted to protect a 16 and 17-year-olds
that they wanted to protect a 16 and 17—year—olds from Covid, and also
17-year-olds from Covid, and also reduce
17—year—olds from Covid, and also reduce disruption in schools,
reduce dismption in schools, preventing
reduce disruption in schools, preventing transmission amongst age
preventing transmission amongst age EWUPS-
preventing transmission amongst age groups, teachers, and then hopefully
groups, teachers, and then hopefully preventing transmission within
preventing transmission within society in general, but also
society in general, but also preventing disruption in schools
preventing disruption in schools because that was having such a great
because that was having such a great impact on young people, including
impact on young peopla, including mental
impact on young people, including mental health and their education.
mental health and their education. So
mental health and their education. 50 those were the big arguments for
So those were the big arguments for doing it. However, there were
doing it. However, there were concerns about a very, very rare
concerns about a very, very rare side effect, heart inflammation
side effect, heart inﬂammation railed
side effect, heart inflammation called myocarditis. Which was shown
rallad myorarditis. which was shown to particularty
called myocarditis. Which was shown to particularly affect young men, or
to particularty affect young men, or young boys. So
to particularly affect young men, or young boys. 50 there has been a bit
young boys. So there has been a bit of sensitivity
young boys. 50 there has been a bit of sensitivity around that, wanting
of sensitivity around that, wanting to get more data, because we have
to get more data, because we have talked about a lot, Joanna, there is
talked about a lot, joanna, there is that balancing
talked about a lot, Joanna, there is that balancing act between when you
that balancing act between when you are looking at the younger age
are looking at the younger age EWUPS
are looking at the younger age groups of they are less likely to
groups of they are lass likely to get Covid,
groups of they are less likely to get Covid, sorry, they are less
get Covid, sorry, they are lass likely to
get Covid, sorry, they are less likely to become seriously ill from
likely to become seriously ill from Covid, it is likely they will have
Covid, it is likely they will have very mild symptoms, or not have
very mild symptoms, or not have symptoms at all, so you are
symptoms at all, so you are balancing that up. That was the
balancing that up. That was the thing that was holding that decision
thing that was holding that decision back. The MHRA now say they have
back. The MHRA now say they have been closely monitoring heart
been closely monitoring heart inflammation and they are confident
inﬂammation and they are confident they have not
inflammation and they are confident they have not noticed any increased
they have not noticed any increased risk, so the
they have not noticed any increased risk, so theJCVI, the panel, the
risk, so the jCVI, the panel, the joint
risk, so theJCVI, the panel, the Joint Committee on vaccine and
Joint Committee on vaccine and immunisation says they are now
immunisation says they are now advising for that second dose to be
advising for that second dose to be given to that age group with a 12
given to that age group with a 12 week gap. Thank you.
Let’s get more on this from Linda Bauld,
Professor of Public Health at the University of Edinburgh.
The message loud and clear from the news conference this morning was
news conference this morning was that the advisers, the government
that the advisers, the government want people to come forward for
want peopla to come forward for their
want people to come forward for their booster vaccines or second
their booster vaccines or second doses, or as soon as they are
doses, or as soon as they are called. What difference does it
called. what difference does it make?
called. What difference does it make? Where are we currently in
make? where are we currently in terms of
make? Where are we currently in terms of uptake when people become
terms of uptake when people become eligible? If we start with the
eligible? If we start with the second doses, we have seen
second doses, we have seen phenomenal uptake in older age
phenomenal uptake in older age groups. As you go down the age
groups. As you go down the age ranges, I
groups. As you go down the age ranges, Ido
groups. As you go down the age ranges, I do very slightly between
ranges, I do vary slightly between the
ranges, I do very slightly between the devolved nations, you can see
the devolved nations, you ran see those of
the devolved nations, you can see those of us in our 505, not all of
those of us in our 505, not all of us have had our second dose,
us have had our second dose, slightly fewer in their 405 and 305,
slightly fewer in their 405 and 305, and I’m particularly concerned about
and I’m particularty concerned about the 18-29
and I’m particularly concerned about the 18—29 —year—old age group we
the 18-29 wear-old age group we kind of
the 18—29 —year—old age group we kind of stalled at the 70, 70 5%
kind of stallad at the 70, 70 596 uptake, so
kind of stalled at the 70, 70 5% uptake, so we need to make our
uptake, so we need to make our efforts there and communicate to
efforts there and communicate to people that for the second dose and
peopla that for the second dose and probably
people that for the second dose and probably the boosters, this is an
probably the boosters, this is an evergreen offer. In terms of the
evergreen offer. In terms of the boosters they will make a
boosters they will make a significant difference. A couple of
significant difference. A couple of pieces of key evidence, I wasn’t
pieces of key evidence, I wasn’t able to listen to the press
able to listen to the press briefing. The Pfizer trial
briefing. The Pfizer trial randomised people to boosters
randomised peopla to boosters showing
randomised people to boosters showing they were over 90%
showing they were over 90% effective, even when the mean gap
effective, even when the mean gap between the second dose and the
between the second dose and the booster was a
between the second dose and the booster was afar
between the second dose and the booster was a far longer duration
booster was a far longer duration than what we are recommending and
than what we are recommending and there is also compelling evidence
there is also compelling evidence from Israel with tens of thousands
from Israel with tens of thousands of individuals receiving a booster
of individuals receiving a booster that the risks of hospitalisation
that the risks of hospitalisation and mortality are significantly less
and mortality are significantly lass when
and mortality are significantly less when people have that and we are
when peopla have that and we are beginning to
when people have that and we are beginning to see those data picked
beginning to see those data picked “P
beginning to see those data picked up in our UK data. 50 really
up in our UK data. So really important
up in our UK data. 50 really important that we both take up our
important that we both take up our second doses and when it is our
second doses and when it is our opportunity to do so take up the
opportunity to do so take up the booster. Jonathan Van—Them said if
booster. jonathan Van-Them said if the
booster. Jonathan Van—Them said if the booster programme is successful
the booster programme is successful it will take away concerns for Covid
it will take away concerns for Covid around Christmas and for the
around Christmas and for the whola of winter.
around Christmas and for the whole of winter. He said it really is that
of winter. He said it really is that simple. what
of winter. He said it really is that simple. What do you think is going
simple. what do you think is going on with
simple. What do you think is going on with what has been happening with
on with what has been happening with some in terms of the immunisation,
some in terms of the immunisation, not taking up even the second dose,
not taking up even the second dose, as you have is that? You would have
as you have is that? You would have thought of summary takes up the
thought of summary takes up the first dose they would automatically
first dose they would automatically have the second and go on. Yes, it’s
have the second and go on. Yes, it’s an interesting thing. I think
an interesting thing. I think there are we are not looking at anti—vex
are we are not looking at anti-wax sentiment, I
are we are not looking at anti—vex sentiment, I think that is an issue
sentiment, I think that is an issue for small numbers for taking up any
for small numbers for taking up any doses at all. We are looking at, I
doses at all. We are looking at, I think, people’s complex lives
think, people’s complex lives getting in the way of taking up that
getting in the way of taking up that second appointment. May be some
second appointment. May be some misunderstanding of the protection
misunderstanding of the protection that is provided by first dose,
that is provided by first dose, which is definitely partial, and
which is definitely partial, and peopla just
which is definitely partial, and people just not having a chance to
peopla just not having a chance to do it. I
people just not having a chance to do it. I think complacency or lack
do it. I think complacency or lack of convenience is there. And people
of convenience is there. And people do need to come forward. And also we
do need to come forward. And also we need to give an emphasis in our
need to give an emphasis in our system on that convenience. We need
system on that convenience. We need to maintain droppings for those
to maintain droppings for those EWUPS-
to maintain droppings for those groups, not having people relying
groups, not having peopla relying just on
groups, not having people relying just on appointments, and we need to
just on appointments, and we need to continue to emphasise, back to young
continue to emphasise, back to young people, for our students, when we
peopla, for our students, when we come back,
people, for our students, when we come back, even in the next centre,
come back, even in the next centre, we need to have those vaccination
we need to have those vaccination dinis
we need to have those vaccination clinics and links to the NHS on
clinic and links to the NHS on campus to
clinics and links to the NHS on campus to really pick up everybody
campus to really pick up everybody who has not had the second dose. ——
who has not had the second dose. -- drop ins. I
who has not had the second dose. -- drop ins. Ithink
who has not had the second dose. —— drop ins. I think convenience and
drop ins. I think convenience and may be some complacency has been the
may be some complacency has been the main feature for that gap between
main feature for that gap between first and second. The experts were
first and second. The experts were asked at the news conference whether
asked at the news conference whether boosters will inevitably roll out to
boosters will inevitably roll out to more adults. The answer was may be.
more adults. The answer was may be. Does it make sense? Because if
Does it make sense? Because if immunity starts to wane after six
immunity starts to wane after six months, that happens to everybody,
months, that happens to everybody, obviously, and the decision was
obviously, and the decision was taken to give all over eighteens and
taken to give all over eighteens and now 16 and 17—year—olds another dose
now 16 and 17-year-olds another dose anyway. They are
now 16 and 17—year—olds another dose anyway. They are looking at relative
anyway. They are looking at relative risks and that’s what they have
risks and that’s what they have changed now for approval over A0. We
changed now for approval over 40. We know the age
changed now for approval over A0. We know the age gradient and those with
know the age gradient and those with undertying
know the age gradient and those with underlying conditions for the risk
undertying conditions for the risk of
underlying conditions for the risk of disease severity, hospitalisation
of disease severity, hospitalisation and mortality is so much greater the
and mortality is so much greater the older you are. So it does make sense
older you are. So it does make sense to move back down through the age
to move back down through the age ranges, plus those with underlying
ranges, plus those with underlying conditions and the extremely
conditions and the extremely clinically vulnerable. But going
clinically vulnerable. But going back to Israel and number of other
back to Israel and number of other countries, boosters have been made
countries, boosters have been made available to adults as a whole, and
available to adults as a whole, and I think you are right that if the
I think you are right that if the sunplv
I think you are right that if the supply is there and the evidence
supply is there and the evidence continues to build, it may be that
continues to build, it may be that other age groups become eligible.
other age groups become eligibla. And
other age groups become eligible. And the final point, the key
And the final point, the key priority now is to get through this
priority now is to get through this winter. The boosters are going to
winter. The boosters are going to make a huge difference as Professor
make a huge difference as Professor jonathan
make a huge difference as Professor Jonathan Van—Them has
make a huge difference as Professor Jonathan Van—Tham has said. Looking
jonathan Van-Tham has said. Looking ahead we
Jonathan Van—Tham has said. Looking ahead we have questions about when
ahead we have questions about when we would need to receive a Covid—19
we would need to receive a Covid-19 vaccine in
we would need to receive a Covid—19 vaccine in the longer term, and
vaccine in the longer term, and there are still many scientific
there are still many scientific questions about that. Professor
questions about that. Professor Linda Bauld, thank you.
People going to cinemas, theatres and concert halls in Wales
will be required to show a Covid pass from today.
It follows the introduction of passes for nightclubs and big
events in the nation last month.
Covid case rates in Wales are falling, but remain relatively high.
The headlines on BBC News —
MI5 and Counter—terrorism police are investigating yesterday’s
explosion in a taxi in Liverpool yesterday — which killed one man.
The taxi driver has been named locally as David Perry.
UK Government advisers have recommended the Covid—19 vaccine
booster programme should be extended to include healthy 40—
to A9—year—olds and 16— and17—year—olds should come forward
for a second dose.
Belarus is warned that it faces more sanctions —
including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
Austria has introduced a partial lockdown for the two
Austria has announced a partial lockdown for the two
million people there who haven’t had two doses of a coronavirus vaccine.
They’ve been told to stay at home except for work
and essential shopping.
The country has one of the highest infection rates in Europe,
but new restrictions are being brought in,
or considered, across much of the continent.
Courtney Bembridge has more.
There was a last—minute rush at vaccination centres
in Upper Austria, on the eve of new restrictions
for those not yet protected.
Unvaccinated Austrians were already barred from visiting restaurants,
hairdressers and cinemas, but they’re now told to stay home
except for work and food shopping.
It’ll be policed using spot checks with hefty fines for those
caught breaking the rules.
Austria has one of the lowest vaccination rates in Western Europe
— around 64% of the population is fully vaccinated,
which leaves two million people yet to get two doses.
And the country has one of the highest infection rates
in Europe — more than 800 cases per 100,000 people.
The ICUs are starting to fill up.
It’s already projected that within two weeks
we will have reached the limit, and we know that the cases we see
now will be those that fill up the ICUs in two weeks,
so there’s need for some measure right now.
But not everyone agrees.
Crowds gathered over the weekend in Salzburg and Vienna
to make their opposition clear.
TRANSLATION: I’m here today because I want
to fight for my rights.
These measures are absolutely discriminatory.
My body, our bodies, we have a right to decide about them.
A fourth wave of infections is gripping much of Europe
and the continent is once again the epicentre of the virus.
Eastern European nations with lower vaccination rates like Latvia
and Russia were among the first to bring back restrictions,
but even the Netherlands with a vaccination rate above 80%
has reintroduced a partial lockdown for at least three weeks.
And Germany is also weighing up new restrictions.
Courtney Bembridge, BBC News.
Teachers in New Zealand will now be banned from the classroom
if they have not been vaccinated against Covid—19.
The measure is part of the country’s Zero Covid policy,
but critics warn it could see some schools forced to return to online
lessons as there will not be enough staff on site.
The authorities in New Zealand have ramped up efforts to get people
vaccinated since the Delta variant got into the largely
Covid—free country in August.
90% of New Zealanders have had their first dose.
Around four—fifths are fully vaccinated.
The European Union says it could impose sanctions
against anyone involved in the transportation of migrants
to the Belarus border with Poland.
It comes as EU countries are holding their first high level
talks since the crisis began.
The EU’s foreign policy chief, said such sanctions would also apply
to airlines and travel agencies.
Our Moscow Correspondent Steve Rosenberg is in Bruzgi,
on the border between Poland and Belarus.
Tell us what is happening there. Tense scenes this morning in the
Tense scenes this morning in the migrant ramp
Tense scenes this morning in the migrant camp on the Belarusian —
migrant ramp on the Belarusian - Polish
migrant camp on the Belarusian — Polish border. Hundreds of migrants
Polish border. Hundreds of migrants have just pushed their way through
have just pushed their way through the gate right up to the checkpoint
the gate right up to the checkpoint here on the Belarusian side of the
here on the Belarusian side of the border. From what we saw, Belarusian
border. From what we saw, Belarusian forces made no attempt at all to
forces made no attempt at all to stop them. As you can see, there are
stop them. As you ran see, there are hundreds
stop them. As you can see, there are hundreds here. They are sitting
hundreds here. They are sitting down, they are determined to get
down, they are determined to get what they want, in other words to be
what they want, in other words to be allowed into Poland into the
allowed into Poland into the European Union. And so you have this
European Union. And so you have this stand-off, the
European Union. And so you have this stand—off, the migrants on one side,
stand-off, the migrants on one side, and on the
stand—off, the migrants on one side, and on the other side of the razor
and on the other side of the razor wire the lines of Polish police,
wire the lines of Polish police, Polish troops. There is a Polish
Polish troops. There is a Polish helicopter monitoring the situation.
helicopter monitoring the situation. I think this is a water cannon here,
I think this is a water cannon here, and we have been hearing in the last
and we have been hearing in the last few minutes announcements from
few minutes announcements from Polish forces telling people to obey
Polish forces telling people to obey orders. It is quite a tense
orders. It is quite a tense situation here. Now, the European
situation here. Now, the European Union has been saying all along that
Union has been saying all along that Belams
Union has been saying all along that Belarus is using these migrants as a
Belams is using these migrants as a political
Belarus is using these migrants as a political weapon, encouraging people
political weapon, encouraging peopla to come
political weapon, encouraging people to come to Belarus, facilitating
to come to Belams, facilitating illegal
to come to Belarus, facilitating illegal migration to Europe to put
illegal migration to Europe to put pressure on the European Union. That
pressure on the European Union. That is something that the Belarusian
is something that the Belarusian authorities deny. But we know that
authorities deny. But we know that the EU is about to announce more
the EU is about to announce more sanctions on Belarus. Alexander
sanctions on Belarus. Alexander Lukashenko says he will respond. And
Lukashenko says he will respond. And as I say, this has
Lukashenko says he will respond. And as I say, this hasjust happened
as I say, this has just happened minutes ago.
as I say, this hasjust happened minutes ago. This flood of migrants
minutes ago. This ﬂood of migrants from the ramp
minutes ago. This flood of migrants from the campjust
minutes ago. This flood of migrants from the camp just up the road right
from the rampjust up the road right “P
from the rampjust up the road right up to the razor
from the camp just up the road right up to the razor wire here. And it is
up to the razor wire here. And it is unclear how this is going to end. We
unclear how this is going to end. We are just
unclear how this is going to end. We arejust hearing, you mentioned
arejust hearing, you mentioned sanctions, we are
arejust hearing, you mentioned sanctions, we arejust
arejust hearing, you mentioned sanctions, we are just hearing that
sanctions, we arejust hearing that Ursula
sanctions, we are just hearing that Ursula von der Leyen has said the EU
Ursula von der Leyen has said the EU will sanction airlines that support
will sanction airtines that support transport of
will sanction airlines that support transport of migrants. So the
transport of migrants. So the details just
transport of migrants. So the detailsjust coming
transport of migrants. So the details just coming through. She
details just coming through. She says there will be further sanctions
says there will be further sanctions on Belarus this afternoon. So, some
on Belams this afternoon. So, some detail coming
on Belarus this afternoon. So, some detail coming through. More later.
detail coming through. More later. It is extraordinary to see these
It is extraordinary to see these scenes where you are. It looks
scenes where you are. It looks pretty peaceful at the moment. But
pretty peaceful at the moment. But obviously, as we are hearing, the
obviously, as we are hearing, the backdrop to this is very tense
backdrop to this is very tense indeed and the stakes are very high.
indeed and the stakes are very high. Yes, absolutely. We were in the camp
Yes, absolutely. We were in the ramp last night and
Yes, absolutely. We were in the camp last night and lots of people were
last night and lots of peopla were coming up to
last night and lots of people were coming up to us and saying, "What’s
coming up to us and saying, "what’s the news?
coming up to us and saying, "What’s the news? When is Poland going to
the news? when is Poland going to let us
the news? When is Poland going to let us through? Will the European
let us through? will the European Union
let us through? Will the European Union let us through?" There was a
Union let us through?" There was a mmour
Union let us through?" There was a rumour swirting
Union let us through?" There was a rumour swirling through the camp
rumour swirting through the ramp yesterday
rumour swirling through the camp yesterday that on Monday everything
yesterday that on Monday everything would be OK and the EU would open
would be OK and the EU would open its doors to the migrants. There was
its doors to the migrants. There was no... Nothing to actually prove
no... Nothing to actually prove that, but clearly tensions were
that, but dearty tensions were mnning high.
that, but clearly tensions were running high. And this morning there
mnning high. And this morning there has been a
running high. And this morning there has been a rush, a flood of people
has been a msh, a ﬂood of peopla who after
has been a rush, a flood of people who after a week of living out in
who after a week of living out in the cold here, have decided that
the cold here, have decided that this is the moment. And as I say, no
this is the moment. And as I say, no evidence that they were being
evidence that they were being stopped here by the Belarusian
stopped here by the Belarusian forces. Quite the opposite. We saw
forces. Quite the opposite. We saw soldiers standing around and just
soldiers standing around and just watching as the crowd came up to the
watching as the crowd came up to the razor wire.
watching as the crowd came up to the razorwire. How long
watching as the crowd came up to the razor wire. How long people will
razor wire. How long peopla will stay here it’s
razor wire. How long people will stay here it’s not clear, and it’s
stay here it’s not clear, and it’s not clear what action the Polish
not clear what action the Polish forces are going to take. But Poland
forces are going to take. But Poland has made it clear in recent days it
has made it clear in recent days it is determined not to let the
is determined not to let the migrants through because it believes
migrants through because it believes that Belarus is using migrants to
that Belams is using migrants to wage hybrid
that Belarus is using migrants to wage hybrid warfare, not only
wage hybrid warfare, not only against Poland but also against the
against Poland but also against the European Union. Can you give us a
European Union. (“an you give us a sense of
European Union. Can you give us a sense of how many people are there,
sense of how many people are there, and also we can see children
and also we ran see children directly
and also we can see children directly behind you. How long have
directly behind you. How long have they been there for? What resources
they been there for? what resources do they have
they been there for? What resources do they have while they are there?
do they have while they are there? Well, for many of these people this
Well, for many of these peopla this is day
Well, for many of these people this is day eight camping out in the
is day eight camping out in the cold. The temperature is close to
cold. The temperature is close to freezing. People have been trying to
freezing. People have been trying to build shelters for themselves in the
build shelters for themselves in the ramp using
build shelters for themselves in the camp using branches and logs and
ramp using branches and logs and foliage. But
camp using branches and logs and foliage. But really that has given
foliage. But really that has given little protection against the cold,
little protection against the cold, peopla
little protection against the cold, people have been lighting bonfires
people have been lighting bonfires to try and keep warm. Some
to try and keep warm. Some humanitarian aid has got through.
humanitarian aid has got through. But dearty a
humanitarian aid has got through. But clearly a decision has been
But dearty a decision has been taken
But clearly a decision has been taken somewhere that this is the
taken somewhere that this is the moment to actually move things up a
moment to actually move things up a lavel. And
moment to actually move things up a level. And in many ways, this is the
lavel. And in many ways, this is the kind of picture
level. And in many ways, this is the kind of picture that the Belarusian
kind of picture that the Belarusian authorities would welcome, I think.
authorities would welcome, I think. Because they have been accused by
Because they have been accused by Europe of trying to create, trying
Europe of trying to create, trying to engineer a humanitarian crisis on
to engineer a humanitarian crisis on the border with Europe. 50 as I say,
the border with Europe. So as I say, it is unclear
the border with Europe. 50 as I say, it is unclear how this is going to
it is unclear how this is going to end. Men, women and children here,
end. Men, women and children here, yes. We heard some very distressing
yes. We heard some very distressing stories in the camp about the
stories in the camp about the conditions people have been living
conditions peopla have been living in. Many
conditions people have been living in. Many people said they were
in. Many people said they were determined to get through to the EU.
determined to get through to the EU. A lot of people here from Northern
A lot of people here from Northern Iraq, a lot of people from
Iraq, a lot of people from Kurdistan. And in fact, everyone we
Kurdistan. And in fact, everyone we have spoken to said they are not
have spoken to said they are not going back. They are not going to go
going back. They are not going to go back to Minsk, the Belarusian
back to Minsk, the Belarusian capital, they are not going to go
capital, they are not going to go back to their home countries. They
hack to their home countries. They want to get
back to their home countries. They want to get through. But no sign so
want to get through. But no sign so far that the EU is about to let them
far that the EU is about to let them through. Thank you very much, Steve
through. Thank you very much, Steve Rosenberg in Bruzgi on the border
Rosenberg in Bruzgi on the border between Poland and Belarus.
Many of the migrants stranded on the border
between Poland and Belarus, are from Iraq and Afghanistan.
between Poland and Belarus are from Iraq and Afghanistan.
Others are trying to enter Europe on the border
between northeast Serbia and Romania.
Our correspondent Nick Thorpe sent this special report from the area.
It doesn’t look like Fortress Europe.
There are no walls or fences, more like an observation
post on the long road from Afghanistan into the European Union.
This is a thermal vision team of the Romanian border police.
The [and border is 260 kilometres long.
6,500 people are known to have crossed it
so far this year.
The real number is certainly much higher.
The cameras can see for five kilometres
in the dark.
The most important thing is to identify all people
who try to enter Europe.
Because we are the main gate to Europe.
If they ask for asylum they will go in the
procedure, what comes with this form of protection.
Or if they don’t want asylum they are going to be taken
back to Serbia.
The police insist they never use force to push
migrants back.
Those who ask for protection or who get through
undetected end up here in Timisoara.
Most are Afghans and reached
the Balkans before the Taliban took power.
This NGO offers clothes, showers and the first kindness most
have met for a long time.
We want to help them with sleeping bags, they sleep outside.
And it is so cold.
I think more people, they are on the road
and they come here to Timisoara.
This is the field in Timisoara where asylum seekers
traditionally congregate.
And in five years coming here, I have never
seen so many people.
Almost all of them are in transit.
You are Afghani?
0K.
Around 500 people are accommodated in the official refugee
camp and at least 100 more sleep rough.
This man and his volunteers try to ease their aches and pains.
Romania seems less hostile than other countries.
What we are seeing now, that is an increase, we are seeing
supportive messages.
We are seeing people saying, hey, we should help
and remember how we used to be migrants all over
Europe and we were so
happy when someone was at least notjudging us.
Maybe they couldn’t help us but at least they weren’t
throwing stones.
Afghans reaching Europe now hope the situation back
home means their asylum requests will be looked on more favourably.
This field is just one more oasis on thatjourney.
Nick Thorpe, BBC News, Timisoara.
The headlines on BBC News:
The Mayor of Liverpool has praised the taxi driver,
who was injured in yesterday’s car explosion in the city,
for his heroic efforts.
Joanne Anderson said the man named locally as David Perry,
had managed to divert what, she said, could have been
an absolutely awful disaster at the Liverpool Women’s Hospital.
The Security Service, MI5, is assisting counter—terrorism
police with the investigation.
Three men have been arrested.
UK Government advisers have recommended the Covid—19 vaccine
booster programme should be extended to include healthy A0
to A9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward
for a second dose.
Belarus is warned that it faces more sanctions,
including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
A lockdown in Austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated
against Covid comes into force.
Six months after a damning report into the BBC’s handling
of Princess Diana’s 1995 Parorama interview, her brother tells
the corporation he believes there’s more to come out.
More new on our top story — that one person has been
killed and another injured following an explosion
outside Liverpool Women’s Hospital on Sunday.
The Mayor of Liverpool has praised the injured man,
who is a taxi driver, for his heroic efforts.
Our correspondent Fiona Trott is at the hospital
in Liverpool for us now.
Still a lot of unanswered questions but increasingly the story seems to
but increasingly the story seems to be the taxi driver potentially was
be the taxi driver potentially was quite a hero? That is right.
quite a hero? That is right. Investigations around that part of
Investigations around that part of this are still continuing. Let me
this are still continuing. Let me describe where the police activity
describe where the police activity is concentrated this morning. It is
is concentrated this morning. It is here at Liverpool Women’s Hospital.
here at Liverpool Women’s Hospital. The cord and behind me has dozens of
The cord and behind me has dozens of officers patrolling the grounds
officers patrolling the grounds separately. There are offices at the
separately. There are offices at the Sefbon
separately. There are offices at the Sefton Park area and there are a
Sefbon Park area and there are a dozen police
Sefton Park area and there are a dozen police officers on the street
dozen police officers on the street and a mobile command unit has been
and a mobile command unit has been set up. Officers
and a mobile command unit has been setup. Officers are outside the
set up. Officers are outside the PWPe’tY-
setup. Officers are outside the property, which we understand is
property, which we understand is where police went at the start of
where police went at the start of this investigation. They returned
this investigation. They returned their last night. There appear to be
their last night. There appear to be somebody inside a house, trained
somebody inside a house, trained negotiators were seen on the streets
negotiators were seen on the streets and homes have been evacuated. The
and homes have been evacuated. The third area of police investigation
third area of police investigation is the Kensington area, where three
is the Kensington area, where three men were arrested yesterday under
men were arrested yesterday under the terrorism act. They are 21, 26
the terrorism act. They are 21, 26 and 29 years old. Two streets remain
and 29 years old. Two streets remain cordoned off in that part the city.
cordoned off in that part the city. All those streets are less than two
All those streets are less than two miles from the Women’s Hospital
milas from the Women’s Hospital where
miles from the Women’s Hospital where the blast occurred. What is
where the blast occurred. what is the focus
where the blast occurred. What is the focus of this investigation? You
the focus of this investigation? You have the car at the hospital grounds
have the far at the hospital grounds completely
have the car at the hospital grounds completely burnt out. One expert has
completely burnt out. One expert has told the BBC it looks like a lot of
told the BBC it looks like a lot of fire damage, little blast damage. Of
fire damage, little blast damage. Of course, that fire killed a passenger
course, that fire killed a passenger inside. His identity... I
course, that fire killed a passenger inside. His identity... lam
course, that fire killed a passenger inside. His identity... I am going
inside. His identity... lam going to
inside. His identity... I am going to continue as best as I can. This
to continue as best as I ran. This is a joint
to continue as best as I can. This is a joint investigation.
is a joint investigation. STUDIO: I can see that we are unable
STUDIO: I ran see that we are unabla to hear you right
STUDIO: I can see that we are unable to hear you right now,
to hear you right now, unfortunately. There are police at
unfortunately. There are police at the scene surrounding Fiona. She is
the scene surrounding Fiona. She is absolutely fine but someone was
absolutely fine but someone was drowning out what she was saying so
drowning out what she was saying so we are unable to continue with that
we are unabla to continue with that particular
we are unable to continue with that particular broadcast. We will be
particular broadcast. We will be back with her a little bit later.
Major improvements in the care for sickle cell patients in England
is being called for, after "serious failings",
including avoidable deaths, were identified in an inquiry.
The report by a cross—party group of MP’s found there was evidence
of substandard levels of care and a lack of awareness
of the condition amongst staff.
Here’s our community affairs correspondent Adina Campbell.
A life cut short caused by failures in his care.
He was a loving and charming guy.
He always wanted to help people.
He was a very clever and brilliant boy.
21—year—old Evan Smith developed sepsis after having gall
bladder stent removed.
He also lived with sickle cell disease and experienced a painful
episode while in hospital in London known as a sickle cell crisis.
A coroner ruled he may have survived if he was offered
a blood transfusion sooner.
Things were happening so fast.
He was scared...
I mean, I could imagine the state he was in,
and each time I think of it it’s something else.
I can’t believe we just lost him like that.
Evan Smith because my death was the cause of this new report.
It found a number of serious concerns, including substandard care
for sickle cell patients admitted on general wards or in A&E.
Inadequate training among health care staff.
And racism experienced by some patients.
People living with sickle—cell feel there is inequality in the way
that they are being treated here.
No one wants to put one community above anyone else.
But they do want equality in treatment.
And right now with sickle—cell, we don’t have that.
NHS England says it has overhauled the way treatment
is delivered to patients, with ten new centres for sickle
cell disease being set up across the country.
Sickle—cell patients live with the long term,
often excruciating pain.
It’s an inherited condition from both parents, predominantly
affecting people with African or Caribbean heritage.
And that’s why some senior health campaigners feel it is not given
the attention it deserves.
If these failures affected the general Anglo—Saxon population,
there would be an outcry.
There would be an outcry and an immediate we must do
something about this.
And what we are saying is that this has gone on far too long for people
who live with sickle—cell and action, and urgent
action must be taken now.
The report has made a number of recommendations, including more
funding for sickle cell research, and better training for health care
staff to help save lives and avoid painful tragic deaths.
Adina Campbell, BBC News.
Let’s talk now to Aisatu Beadford King
and Sumaiya Mahmoud, who are both in their early 205
and both have sickle cell.
Welcome, thank you for
Welcome, thank you forjoining us.
Welcome, thank you for joining us. If you could
Welcome, thank you forjoining us. If you could tell us first of all,
If you could tell us first of all, how often you find yourself in
how often you find yourself in hospital with sickle cell disease
hospital with sickle cell disease and the impact it has on your life?
and the impact it has on your life? I think for me recently over the
I think for me recently over the past couple of years I have found
past couple of years I have found myself in hospital, I would say
myself in hospital, I would say about 20 times, may more? I
about 20 times, may more? I currently am in sickle cell crisis
currently am in sickla cell crisis as well now,
currently am in sickle cell crisis as well now, just a very mild one
as well now, just a very mild one but I am in pain pretty much every
but I am in pain pretty much every other week.
but I am in pain pretty much every otherweek. It
but I am in pain pretty much every otherweek. Itjust
but I am in pain pretty much every other week. Itjust depends on how
other week. It just depends on how severe
other week. Itjust depends on how severe the
other week. It just depends on how severe the pain
other week. Itjust depends on how severe the pain is, if it is
severe the pain is, if it is bearable or if it is not. Could you
bearable or if it is not. Could you just describe for us exactly what
just describe for us exactly what that means? What is happening to
that means? what is happening to your body
that means? What is happening to your body and where are you feeling
your body and where are you feeling it, could you describe what the
it, could you describe what the feeling is like? It is always really
feeling is like? It is always really hard to describe a crisis, but it is
hard to describe a crisis, but it is almost like a stabbing pain, but it
almost like a stabbing pain, but it is a bit more than that. I had a
is a bit more than that. I had a crisis about two weeks ago and it
crisis about two weeks ago and it was from my neck straight through to
was from my neck straight through to my chest. Every time I breathed, it
my chest. Every time I breathed, it hurt. Every time I moved, I was in
hurt. Every time I moved, Iwas in pain. And when I
hurt. Every time I moved, I was in pain. And when I went to A&E I was
pain. And when I went to “IE I was in hospital for
pain. And when I went to A&E I was in hospitalfor about a
pain. And when I went to A&E I was in hospital for about a week.
pain. And when I went to A&E I was in hospitalfor about a week. Then I
in hospital for about a week. Then I was sent
in hospitalfor about a week. Then I was sent home and since then I have
was sent home and since then I have been recovering from that one
been recovering from that one crisis. It has been two weeks since
crisis. It has been two weeks since I have been in hospital and I am
I have been in hospital and I am still recovering and going through
still recovering and going through the crisis a little bit. With the
the crisis a little bit. with the chess
the crisis a little bit. With the chess crisis for me, it is more of a
chess crisis for me, it is more of a sharp, stabbing pain. Almost like if
sharp, stabbing pain. Almost like if you take a breath, someone is
you take a breath, someone is stabbing you while you are breathing
stabbing you whila you are breathing so it is
stabbing you while you are breathing so it is kind of hard. But that is
so it is kind of hard. But that is kind of the pain I am going through.
kind of the pain I am going through. But it is a lot less than it was a
But it is a lot lass than it was a couple of
But it is a lot less than it was a couple of weeks ago. So it is blood
couple of weeks ago. So it is blood vessels to that part of the body
vessels to that part of the body basically becoming blocked, is it?
basically becoming blocked, is it? Yes. What impact could it have,
Yes. what impact could it have, potentially?
Yes. What impact could it have, potentially? It is pretty much
potentially? It is pretty much life—threatening. It is quite hard.
life-threatening. It is quite hard. It is scary
life—threatening. It is quite hard. It is scary almost but when you are
It is scary almost but when you are used to something you kinda don’t
used to something you kinda don’t think about it, it’s generally when
think about it, it’s generally when you down and understand how
you down and understand how life—threatening it really is. You
life-threatening it really is. You take a step
life—threatening it really is. You take a step back from everything and
take a step back from everything and that is when you just kind of value
that is when you just kind of value life a bit more. You have the same
life a bit more. You have the same thing, how often do you end up in
thing, how often do you end up in hospital with it? With me, I go in
hospital with it? with me, I go in regularty so I
hospital with it? With me, I go in regularly so I am there every other
regularty so I am there every other day. It is very
regularly so I am there every other day. It is very hard for us because
day. It is very hard for us because this is a chronic illness so it
this is a chronic illness so it impacts us on our day—to—day life.
impacts us on our day-to-day life. with us,
impacts us on our day—to—day life. With us, whatever we do, it is
with us, whatever we do, it is likely have to
With us, whatever we do, it is likely have to take a step back and
likely have to take a step back and think about our health. That’s how
think about our health. That’s how it is with us. And today we have the
it is with us. And today we have the report that says they need to be
report that says they need to be major improvements in their careful
major improvements in their careful sickle cell patients in England
sickla cell patients in England after
sickle cell patients in England after serious failings, including
after serious failings, including avoidable deaths were identified in
avoidable deaths were identified in an enquiry. How do you about that?
an enquiry. How do you about that? In my opinion I feel like there
In my opinion I feel like there needs to be more education with the
needs to be more education with the health care. The reason being is
health rare. The reason being is because
health care. The reason being is because there has been many
because there has been many experiences where I have gone into
experiences where I have gone into A&E, admitted into hospital and have
AaE, admitted into hospital and have experienced
A&E, admitted into hospital and have experienced really horrible
experienced really horrible treatment. Like, they are not
treatment. Like, they are not following my care plan. They are
following my rare plan. They are prescribing
following my care plan. They are prescribing any medication that I
prescribing any medication that I could easily
prescribing any medication that I could easilyjust take at home. And
could easily just take at home. And it is like you
could easilyjust take at home. And it is like you explained these
it is like you explained these things to them and it is very hard
things to them and it is very hard for them to understand. Have you
for them to understand. Have you encountered similar? You would think
encountered similar? You would think you are both in and out of hospital
you are both in and out of hospital frequently, you know what is going
frequently, you know what is going on, it seems unbelievable that the
on, it seems unbelievable that the treatment isn’t always efficient?
treatment isn’t always efficient? Yes, I would say definitely the
Yes, I would say definitely the health care needs to, the Health
health rare needs to, the Health Secretary
health care needs to, the Health Secretary needs to educate nurses
Secretary needs to educate nurses and doctors a lot more, especially
and doctors a lot more, especially in A&E. When you come into a crisis
in “IE. when you come into a crisis the first place
in A&E. When you come into a crisis the first place you go is A&E, you
the first place you go is AaE, you expect a level
the first place you go is A&E, you expect a level of care. You expect
expect a level of rare. You expect them to
expect a level of care. You expect them to provide you with the
them to provide you with the medication and the care that you
meditation and the rare that you need. I
medication and the care that you need. I think sometimes you don’t
need. I think sometimes you don’t get that. I have also encountered
get that. I have also encountered experiences where I have gone into
experiences where I have gone into ASIE
experiences where I have gone into “IE and I
experiences where I have gone into A&E and I have not received the
“IE and I have not received the right amount
A&E and I have not received the right amount of care and I am
right amount of rare and I am waiting for
right amount of care and I am waiting for God knows how long and I
waiting for God knows how long and I am sitting in sickle cell crisis for
am sitting in sickla cell crisis for ten hours
am sitting in sickle cell crisis for ten hours in the most uncomfortable
ten hours in the most uncomfortable bed. Asking for the medication that
bed. Asking for the medication that should be given. It is very
should be given. It is very frustrating and at times you sit
frustrating and at times you sit there in A&E and think, am I going
there in “IE and think, am I going to die right
there in A&E and think, am I going to die right now? Is this the end
to die right now? Is this the end for me just
to die right now? Is this the end for mejust because
to die right now? Is this the end for me just because doctors and
for me just because doctors and nurses, who you trust with your life
nurses, who you trust with your life don’t really know what sickle cell
don’t really know what sickla cell is an
don’t really know what sickle cell is an don’t know how to treat it or
is an don’t know how to treat it or just have misconceptions about
just have misconceptions about sickla
just have misconceptions about sickle cell, or about you as a
sickla cell, or about you as a person
sickle cell, or about you as a person coming in, thinking the
person coming in, thinking the painkillers is too much and thinking
painkillers is too much and thinking you don’t need what you are asking
you don’t need what you are asking for. There is so many different
for. There is so many different stories I have heard, not
for. There is so many different stories I have heard, notjust with
stories I have heard, not just with me but
stories I have heard, notjust with me but other people with sickle cell
me but other peopla with sickla cell that I
me but other people with sickle cell that I know have told me so many
that I know have told me so many different stories. Something that
different stories. Something that needs to be worked on and, yeah,
needs to be worked on and, yeah, something that really needs to be
something that really needs to be worked on. We appreciate you both
worked on. We appreciate you both taking time to tell us about your
taking time to tell us about your experiences. I have the crisis you
experiences. I have the crisis you are currently feeling passes soon.
are currently feeling passes soon. Thank you.
The Prime Minister says the climate deal reached at COP26 "sounds
the death knell" for coal power, but says he was "tinged
with disappointment" after China and India objected to tougher
commitments on its use.
After lengthy negotiations at the conference in Glasgow,
countries agreed to "phase down" rather than "phase out" coal.
But it’s the first time plans to reduce coal have been mentioned
in this type of climate deal.
Critics say the move doesn’t go far enough.
Earlier I spoke to Lord Nicholas Stern, professor of economics
at the London School of Economics who gave this reaction to the deal.
Well, it was a pity that we moved from phase—out to phase—down,
but I don’t think it’s a huge significance.
You’ve got to look at the deal as a whole and you’ve got to look
at all the things that happened in the first weekend leading up
to the last—minute negotiations.
For example, 130 trillion, that’s the Glasgow financial
allowance of 400, 130 trillion private money declaring
for net zero and that means they are going to move away
from the dirty stuff of the last century to the much cleaner,
sustainable technologies of this century.
South Africa, Vietnam, India indicating very strong moves
towards renewables and in moving away from coal.
Technology agreements around power and transport
and green hydrogen and so on.
The meetings between, or the declaration of China
and the United States, the first time they’ve got together
constructively for a very long time.
So there were really quite a lot of positives there.
The big worry though, if you add it all up,
we’re probably heading for around two Celsius increase average global
surface temperature.
We really need 1.5, so the challenge is to move quickly starting next
year when we are going to convene again to try to raise ambition
to drive towards 1.5.
Joining me now is Kai Saunders from the UK Youth Climate Coalition.
Thank you for
Thank you forjoining us, what is
Thank you for joining us, what is your view of
Thank you forjoining us, what is your view of what COP26 achieved?
your view of what (20st achieved? Some of
your view of what COP26 achieved? Some of the positives, there has
Some of the positives, there has been some incremental improvements.
been some incremental improvements. It is incrementally significant the
It is incrementally significant the fact that China and America came
fact that China and America came together to speak. The whole deal
together to speak. The whole deal about deforestation and the
about deforestation and the commitments that so many countries
commitments that so many countries fame
commitments that so many countries came together. However, it just
came together. However, itjust isn’t enough. It looks like closer
isn’t enough. It looks like closer to 2.4 and that 1.5, which many
to 2.4 and that 1.5, which many countries need to stay alive. What
countries need to stay alive. what more
countries need to stay alive. What more would you have liked to have
more would you have liked to have seen achieved? Every single COP we
seen achieved? Every single COP we go in wanting to see the action
go in wanting to see the action plans and the NDC, to have a
plans and the NDC, to have a concrete plan towards 1.5. And a
concrete plan towards 1.5. And a full commitment to phase out fossil
full commitment to phase out fossil fuels by 2030. That have been kicked
fuels by 2030. That have been kicked down the road to the next COP. The
down the road to the next COP. The fact this is the first agreement to
fact this is the first agreement to mention coal in the way that it has
mention coal in the way that it has been is extraordinary in itself and
been is extraordinary in itself and shows how slow and incremental
shows how slow and incremental evolution is on this path. It is not
evolution is on this path. It is not obviously the last of the summits
obviously the last of the summits like this, there will be another one
like this, there will be another one like this next year and there after.
like this next year and there after. Do you sort of understand why it is
Do you sort of understand why it is a process that although you would
a process that although you would like to see progress much more
like to see progress much more quickly, inevitably takes the time
quickly, inevitably takes the time it does because of the nature of it
it does because of the nature of it and the number of countries
and the number of countries involved? Yes, of course it is to.
involved? Yes, of course it is to. But we need to be sprinting when we
But we need to be sprinting when we are jogging.
But we need to be sprinting when we arejogging. Where do you go from
arejogging. where do you go from here?
arejogging. Where do you go from here? Now that we’re coming home
here? Now that we’re coming home from COP, everybody is a
from COP, everybody is a well—deserved rest to start with but
well-deserved rest to start with but after
well—deserved rest to start with but after that we will be keeping the
after that we will be keeping the governments to their word and make
governments to their word and make sure they match the pledges they are
sure they match the pledges they are making. Thank you.
The headlines on BBC News:
The mayor of Liverpool has praised a taxi driver as "heroic"
for his efforts to limit the impact of an explosion in his
vehicle yesterday.
MI5 and Counter—terrorism police continue to
investigate the incident.
UK government advisers have recommended the Covid—19 vaccine
booster programme should be extended to include healthy A0
to A9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward
for a second dose.
Belarus is warned that it faces more sanctions,
including a ban on airlines taking migrants into the country.
More than 300,000 people are getting a pay boost of up
to 40p an hour from today.
The Real Living Wage, which is a voluntary
scheme for employers, is increasing from today to
£9.90 outside of London and to £11.05 in the capital.
Almost 9,000 employers across the UK are now signed up to the scheme,
which aims to ensure all staff earn a wage that meets the
real cost of living.
Ryan Elder says he used to struggle on the minimum wage,
but now works at a frozen food supplier which is part
of the Real Living Wage scheme.
I used to work at the pub and I was working more and more
just so I could get by.
Basically paying for rent, you know, any bills I had to pay
and at the end of the month I would try and put a little better
way to save and it would end up just coming back out of my account.
Every day I was feeling down and I was thinking
about money all the time.
Joining me now is Kim Coles, the finance director
at cosmetics company Lush, which is a member
of the scheme.
Thanks for
Thanks forjoining us. What difference will it make to your wage
difference will it make to your wage packets? For us staff it will make a
packets? For us staff it will make a significant difference. It is
significant difference. It is important to keep up to date with
important to keep up to date with what the real living wage costs are.
what the real living wage costs are. For a business it will cost about
For a business it will cost about 1.7 million but for an individual
1.7 million but for an individual member of staff it is about £800, I
member of staff it is about £800, I think nationally. It is important to
think nationally. It is important to know everyone has enough to live on
know everyone has enough to live on by having it calculated this way by
by having it ralmlated this way by the living
by having it calculated this way by the living wage foundation they can
the living wage foundation they can calculate the cost of living without
ralmlate the cost of living without working two
calculate the cost of living without working two jobs or crazy hours to
working two jobs or crazy hours to make ends meet. How important is
make ends meet. How important is this for you as a business? It is
this for you as a business? It is massively important. It is a modern
massively important. It is a modern form of capitalism that you can
form of capitalism that you ran operate high
form of capitalism that you can operate high standards in business
operate high standards in business and act responsibly and still make a
and act responsibly and still make a profit. We never think it’s right
profit. We never think it’s right for a business to be taking out at
for a business to be taking out at the top and knowing there are people
the top and knowing there are people at the lower end is not earning
at the lower end is not earning enough money to live on. It is the
enough money to live on. It is the moral compass point so it is
moral compass point so it is tremendously important the staff are
tremendously important the staff are paid property.
tremendously important the staff are paid properly. Do the staff feedback
paid property. Do the staff feedback on it on
paid properly. Do the staff feedback on it on how much it matters to
on it on how much it matters to them? Because obviously, not all
them? Because obviously, not all businesses do it. We first did it in
businesses do it. We first did it in 2011 in London first, because that
2011 in London first, because that is where the most hardship was
is where the most hardship was happening. The feedback was about
happening. The feedback was about people being able to eat healthily,
people being able to eat healthily, but the heating on and not having to
but the heating on and not having to work two jobs to be able to make
work twojobs to be able to make ends
work two jobs to be able to make ends meet. It was practical that the
ends meet. It was practical that the biggest part of the feedback. That
biggest part of the feedback. That must give you then, knowing when you
must give you then, knowing when you have those open conversations with
have those open conversations with your employees, what their lives are
your employees, what their lives are like and it gives you a connection
like and it gives you a connection between you as the boss and them as
between you as the boss and them as the workers? Absolutely and that is
the workers? Absolutely and that is why we are so grateful for the
why we are so grateful for the living wage foundation for
living wage foundation for calculating this rate for us. To
ralmlating this rate for us. To have the
calculating this rate for us. To have the experts calculating it for
have the experts ralmlating it for 7°“-
have the experts ralmlating it for you, it makes
have the experts calculating it for you, it makes the whole flow of
you, it makes the whola ﬂow of earnings so
you, it makes the whole flow of earnings so much easier to work out.
earnings so much easier to work out. We are in 48 markets and the UK is
We are in 48 markets and the UK is the only place, although New Zealand
the only place, although New Zealand is pretty good, that has a way of
is pretty good, that has a way of working this out for you. Thank you
working this out for you. Thank you for joining us.
working this out for you. Thank you forjoining us. Thank you very much
for joining us. Thank you very much for having me,
forjoining us. Thank you very much for having me, thank you.
Turkey farmers across the UK have spent several months worrying
about Christmas supply, following staffing shortages caused
by the pandemic and Brexit.
To ease pressure on the supply chain, last month, the government
introduced a temporary visa scheme for seasonal poultry workers.
With more than 3,000 of them already on their way to the UK,
the industry is now confident that Turkey will still be
on the festive menu — as our business correspondent
Emma Simpson reports.
Go
Christmas is coming and the turkeys are nice and fat.
and the turkeys are nice and fat.
TURKEYS GOBBLE.
After months of worry, Paul Kelly’s now got
his seasonal workers, including 22 of them,
through the temporary visa scheme.
It’s about 20% of our workforce so it was
very touch and go for us.
We had many sleepless nights up until the last week
in September when we got the green light when we could
get some visas.
Christmas has been saved.
Christmas has been saved — at this point in time.
More than 2,500 and three workers will be arriving in the UK
in the coming days.
That’s about half as many as the industry
originally was asking for.
TURKEYS GOBBLE.
But it should be enough, partly because a few birds
have been reared this year because some farmers
were worried about getting enough staff.
So will there be enough turkeys to go round?
There will definitely be enough turkeys for Christmas.
I think there will be a focus on whole birds
and very simple crowns and roasts.
This streamlining of our product choice has helped us
in terms of overall volume.
Amid all the supply chain problems, turkeys
at least are now back on track, but the industry’s calling
for a permanent solution to ensure it gets the seasonal
workers its needs.
Emma Simpson, BBC News, Chelmsford.
The son of the former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi has registered
as a presidential candidate.
Saif al—Islam Gaddafi is one of the most prominent
figures expected to run in December’s presidential election.
He was once the heir apparent to his father,
but his support for a brutal crackdown on protesters ten years
ago tarnished his image.
His father, Muammar Gaddafi, was swept from power in 2011
after a NATO—backed uprising — which made way for a decade
of chaos and violence.
This is what his son, said about his presidential bid.
TRANSLATION: May God bring truth between us and our people and let
between us and our people and let the vulnerable.
the vulnerable. God makes the decision, even if the
God makes the decision, even if the infidels hate it.
You’re watching BBC News.
Now it’s time for a look at the weather with Carole.
Hello again.
We have had some dense fog patches across parts of England
and Wales this morning.
And most of that now lifting.
We also have a weather front bumping into an area high
pressure so it is weakening.
Still some rain in it, though.
And later we have another front coming our way.
So for England and Wales we will see some brighter breaks develop in this
cloud but it will be thick enough for some drizzle in some Western
and south—western parts.
Meanwhile, here is our band of rain.
But behind it for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
a lot of dry weather, a lot of sunshine, but the cloud
building out towards the west with temperatures between 10—13 C.
As we head on through the evening and overnight, our week weather
front continues its journey moving south, with some spots of rain.
There will be some patchy mist and fog forming,
not as widespread as last night.
And at the same time, another weather front comes
on across the north west bringing strengthening winds
and also some rain.
Overnight lows of between 6—9 C.
So tomorrow, we do still have that weather front coming
in across the north west.
One look at those isobars tells you it’s going to be windy here.
But we also still have a ridge of high pressure in the southern areas.
50 things fairly quiet in the south.
Any patchy mist and fog that is formed overnight should lift.
There will still be the remnants of a weather front producing
a cloud, the odd spot of rain, but the heaviest rain will be coming
on across the north west, with gusts to gale force
in the northern and western isles and the far north
of mainland Scotland.
But you can see how the weather front starts to fragment
through the course of the day.
Temperatures very similar to today, we are looking at about ten —
13 north to south.
As we had from Tuesday into Wednesday, our weather friend
into Wednesday, our weather front
eventually pushes down towards the south—east
and clears away.
You can see too from the isobars across the far north of Scotland
it’s going to be windy here, and there will also be some showers.
Some of those on the tops of the mountains are
likely to be wintry.
But there will be a lot of dry weather around as well,
and a decent amount of sunshine across parts of England and Wales,
and also eastern Scotland.
A few showers and some drizzle getting into the west.
Temperatures are lower in the north.
We are looking at eights and nines.
But as we come further south, 10—13 will be the order of the day.
Then as we head on into the latter part of the week, still a fair
bit of cloud around, still some rain at times
across the north and the west, or showers, but still mild.
It’s as we go into the early part of next week it turns colder.
This is BBC News.
The headlines at 11...
BorisJohnson pays tribute to the taxi driver —
named locally as David Perry — after his efforts to limit
the impact of an explosion in his vehicle yesterday.
MI5 and Counter—terrorism police continue to
investigate the incident.
ii
It does look as though the taxi driver in question did behave with
driver in question did behave with incredible presence of mind and
incredible presence of mind and bravery.
Detectives from Counter Terrorism Police North West have arrested
three men following the explosion, which happened just before 11 am
on Remembrance Sunday.
m:
We will hear the very latest at a news conference by the police in
news conference by the police in Liverpool in a few moments.
The Prime Minister has been visiting a GP surgery as government advisers
recommend the Covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be extended
to include healthy A0 to A9—year—olds and 16
and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
When you are cold for your booster
when you are cold for your booster dose in
When you are cold for your booster dose in the next phase, you can come
dose in the next phase, you ran come forward
dose in the next phase, you can come forward confident that the benefits
forward confident that the benefits in preventing serious Covid—19
forward confident that the benefits in preventing serious Covid—19far
in preventing serious Covid-19 far outweigh any
in preventing serious Covid—19far outweigh any risks.
After BorisJohnson admits he could have handled the row
involving Owen Paterson better, the debate about parliamentary
standards returns to the Commons today.
A report by MPs finds "serious failings" including avoidable deaths
in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in England.
A lockdown in Austria for anyone who hasn’t been vaccinated
against Covid comes into force.
Assurances there will "definitely" be enough turkeys for Christmas
after fears there could be a shortage.
BorisJohnson has praised the efforts of the taxi driver —
saying it appears he behaved with incredible presence
of mind and bravery.
The UK security service MI5 is a
The UK security service His is a list assisting
The UK security service MI5 is a list assisting the police with the
list assisting the police with the investigation. The explosion
investigation. The explosion happened just before Ham on
happened just before 11am on Remembrance Sunday as a national
Remembrance Sunday as a national two—minute silence was about to
two-minute silance was about to begin. Boris
two—minute silence was about to begin. BorisJohnson has been
begin. Boris johnson has been speaking
begin. BorisJohnson has been speaking about it and says it
speaking about it and says it appears the driver acted with
appears the driver acted with incredible presence of mind and
incredible presence of mind and bravery. First of all this is an
bravery. First of all this is an ongoing investigation so I can’t
ongoing investigation so I can’t comment on the details of exactly
comment on the details of exactly what type of incident it was or what
what type of incident it was or what type of crime it may have been.
type of crime it may have been. But it does look as though the taxi
it does look as though the taxi driver in question did behave with
driver in question did behave with incredible presence of mind and
incredible presence of mind and bravery. But
incredible presence of mind and bravery. Butl
incredible presence of mind and bravery. But I have got to say
bravery. But I have got to say this is something that is an
is something that is an ongoing investigation. The Prime Minister on
investigation. The Prime Minister on the taxi driver and what he did has
the taxi driver and what he did has also been praised by the Mayor of
also been praised by the Mayor of Liverpool. We are expecting to hear
Liverpool. We are expecting to hear from the police news conference
from the police news conference shortly. But firstly this video by
shortly. But firstly this video by james
shortly. But firstly this video by James Reynolds which contains
james Reynolds which contains ﬂashing
James Reynolds which contains flashing images.
The police say they are working at speed to establish
the circumstances of this, the car explosion just outside
the Liverpool Women’s Hospital in central Liverpool.
‘It happened shortly before 11 o’clock yesterday morning,
at a time when Remembrance Day services were about to begin
across the country.
The driver survived the blast.
The passenger, who has not been named, was killed.
Unfortunately, I can confirm that one person has died and another has
been taken to hospital, where he is being treated
for his injuries, which, thankfully, are not life—threatening.
So far we understand that the car involved was a taxi,
which pulled up at the hospital shortly before the
explosion occurred.
In the Kensington area of Liverpool, around
a mile from the explosion, three men, aged 21, 26
and 29, were arrested under the Terrorism Act.
This gives the authorities the power to hold detainees for up to M
days without charge.
And late at night, a number of homes in Liverpool’s Rutland Avenue
A
and nearby Cumberland Avenue were evacuated.
They’re reported to be close to a house which was raided
by the police in the hours after the incident.
Counter Terrorism Police North West are leading
the overall investigation.
They’re supported by officers from Merseyside Police,
and the security service, MI5, is also assisting.
Investigators say they’re keeping an open mind
as to what caused the explosion.
James Reynolds, BBC News.
The Mayor of Liverpool has also thanked the taxi driver for managing
to avert what she said could have been an awful disaster.
Obviously, the taxi driver in his heroic efforts has managed
to divert what could have been an absolutely awful
disaster at the hospital.
Our thanks go to him.
And our emergency services and authorities have
worked through the night to divert anything further.
{11-1
Mill?)
we are waiting to hear from police at a news conference. There is a bit
at a news conference. There is a bit of activity there but no one sitting
of activity there but no one sitting in the chairs at the news conference
in the chairs at the news conference just yet. There is nothing happening
just yet. There is nothing happening there right now. So we will go
there right now. So we will go there as soon as things begin.
Here with me now is Kim Johnson who is
a Labour Member of Parliament for Liverpool Riverside.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining us.
Thank you very much for joining us. There has
Thank you very much forjoining us. There has been quite a lot of praise
There has been quite a lot of praise for the taxi driver and what looked
for the taxi driver and what looked to be some quite heroic actions
to be some quite heroic actions there yesterday. I believe so. I’ve
there yesterday. I believe so. I’ve not had the full details yet. I’m
not had the full details yet. I’m expecting a briefing at one o’clock.
expecting a briefing at one o’clock. I’d like to say the emergency
I’d like to say the emergency services and the authorities need to
services and the authorities need to be commending for responding so
be commending for responding so quickly and professionally to the
quickly and professionally to the explosion at the hospital yesterday
explosion at the hospital yesterday morning. You said that he would be
morning. You said that he would be getting briefed at one o’clock. How
getting briefed at one o’clock. How does that process work? Councillors,
does that process work? Councillors, the police will be updating us in
the police will be updating us in terms of what has been happening
terms of what has been happening because as you’ve heard, it is an
because as you’ve heard, it is an ongoing investigation. There has not
ongoing investigation. There has not been a declaration that it was a
been a declaration that it was a terrorist incident. Merseyside
terrorist incident. Merseyside Police, counterterrorism and the
Police, counterherrorism and the MFI, not
Police, counterterrorism and the MFI, not MFI, anyway, the security
MFI, not MFI, anyway, the security officers are working together
officers are working together collaboratively to look at all of
collaboratively to look at all of the information to see what happened
the information to see what happened yesterday. And when we hear what the
yesterday. And when we hear what the Mayor of Liverpool says in terms of
Mayor of Liverpool says in terms of something so much worse being
something so much worse being averted here it seems, it really
averted here it seems, it really does bring home that it could have
does bring home that it could have been a very different situation. I
been a very different situation. I agree. It was a shocking incident,
agree. It was a shocking incident, and things could have been a lot
and things could have been a lot worse. But the car did receive a lot
worse. But the rar did receive a lot of fire damage
worse. But the car did receive a lot of fire damage but there is little
of fire damage but there is little evidence to suggest that there was a
evidence to suggest that there was a lot of bomb damage related to the
lot of bomb damage related to the damage to that vehicle. And so, what
damage to that vehida. And so, what are your
damage to that vehicle. And so, what are your thoughts today for your
are your thoughts today for your constituents? I think my thoughts
constituents? I think my thoughts for my constituents is that it was a
for my constituents is that it was a very concerning and a very scary
very concerning and a very scary incident, collaborating with
incident, collaborating with coinciding with the remembrance
coinciding with the remembrance events yesterday at the town hall.
events yesterday at the town hall. Again, there is lots of speculation
Again, there is lots of speculation about what happened, and I think we
about what happened, and I think we need to allow the services to
need to allow the services to conduct their investigations and not
conduct their investigations and not get involved with bits of
get involved with bits of misinformation. Absolutely. And as
misinformation. Absolutely. And as we have been discussing there, there
we have been discussing there, there are the police, the local police,
are the police, the [oral police, they
are the police, the local police, they counterterrorism police and the
they counterherrorism police and the MIS working
they counterterrorism police and the MIS working together. There are so
MIS working together. There are so many
MI5 working together. There are so many unanswered questions, and we
many unanswered questions, and we don’t know the significance
don’t know the significance obviously of the arrests that have
obviously of the arrests that have been made. It does look like they
been made. It does look like they have been moving very quickly in
have been moving very quickly in terms of gathering what they need to
terms of gathering what they need to do. I
terms of gathering what they need to do. Iagree. All the
terms of gathering what they need to do. I agree. All the services that
do. I agree. All the services that have responded very efficiently and
have responded very efficiently and very quickly in terms of ensuring no
very quickly in terms of ensuring no further damage could be undertaken.
further damage could be undertaken. And I think the arrest of the three
And I think the arrest of the three under counterterrorism act will
under counterherrorism act will provide
under counterterrorism act will provide those services the
provide those services the information that they need going
information that they need going forward. Thank you very much. We are
forward. Thank you very much. We are waiting to hear
forward. Thank you very much. We are waiting to hearfrom police news
waiting to hear from police news briefing.
waiting to hearfrom police news briefing. There are, I think, four
briefing. There are, I think, four seats at that news conference. I’m
seats at that news conference. I’m not entirely sure that will be
not entirely sure that will be sitting on those. We’ll bring you up
sitting on those. We’ll bring you up to date as far as we are able to
to date as far as we are able to share a what has happened here. But
share a what has happened here. But obviously, there are many unanswered
obviously, there are many unanswered questions. We don’t know yet the
questions. We don’t know yet the name of the person who died in that
name of the person who died in that taxi. There have been three arrests
taxi. There have been three arrests and there was also a building that
and there was also a building that was being staked out yesterday by
was being staked out yesterday by police. So
was being staked out yesterday by police. 50 there has been a lot of
police. 50 there has been a lot of movement in terms of the police
movement in terms of the police investigation under county counter
investigation under county counter terror laws. They have M days to
terror laws. They have 14 days to hold suspects
terror laws. They have M days to hold suspects because of the law is
hold suspects because of the law is the counterterrorism are strong in
the counterherrorism are strong in terms of
the counterterrorism are strong in terms of police powers it means they
terms of police powers it means they do have that time to question any
do have that time to question any suspects. Of course there is much
suspects. Of course there is much being said about the role of the
being said about the role of the taxi driver. He is named locally as
taxi driver. He is named [orally as David Perry. He
taxi driver. He is named locally as David Perry. He was described by the
David Perry. He was described by the Mayor of Liverpool, Joanne Anderson,
Mayor of Liverpool, joanne Anderson, as potentially
Mayor of Liverpool, Joanne Anderson, as potentially having managed to
as potentially having managed to divert what could have been a
divert what could have been a disaster. There has been a lot of
disaster. There has been a lot of focus on what happened yesterday,
focus on what happened yesterday, how it unfolded, and it seems that
how it unfolded, and it seems that he perhaps saw something that raised
he perhaps saw something that raised the suspicion and which led to him
the suspicion and which lad to him locking the
the suspicion and which led to him locking the doors of the taxi with
locking the doors of the taxi with the person left in the back seat. He
the person left in the back seat. He went into the hospital and he was
went into the hospital and he was substance subsequently injured in
substance subsequently injured in the explosion that killed the
the explosion that killed the passenger in that taxi. We are yet
passenger in that taxi. We are yet to hear officially from police about
to hear officially from police about the sequence of events but this was
the sequence of events but this was just happening moments before
just happening moments before the two—minute silence for Remembrance
two-minute silence for Remembrance Sunday. Still no
two—minute silence for Remembrance Sunday. Still no movement on the
Sunday. Still no movement on the news conference but we will go
news conference but we will go back to it as soon as it happens.
The government’s vaccine advisers sa
A third
Athird jab
would top up protection and help to limited third wave of the virus for
limited third wave of the virus for winter. It also says those.
Chair of theJCVI, Professor Wei Shen Lim,
announced the two updates to the booster programme.
The first update relates to the booster programme.
Could I have the first slide, please?
Just as a reminder, the current advice in the
booster programme is that persons aged over 50
years, those adults in
a clinical at risk group, front line health and social care workers and
close contacts of persons who are immunosuppressed should have a
booster vaccine six months following completion
of their primary course, essentially, have a third vaccine
dose six months after the second dose.
Can I have the next slide, please?
We are advising today that the booster programme is extended to
persons aged 40—49 years as well.
As previously, the booster dose is advised six months
after the second dose, and either the Pfizer BioNTech
vaccine or the Moderna vaccine can be used as the booster dose,
regardless of the type of vaccine received
for the first two doses in
the primary course.
You may remember that in early August we advised a
first dose of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine for 16 and 17—year—olds who
do not have an underlying health condition that puts them at higher
risk from severe Covid—19.
We said at the time and would review the data and that a second dose may
well be advise command that is indeed the case.
We have reviewed the recent information regarding the
safety and benefits of a second dose, and we are advising that 16
and 17—year—olds who have had a first dose of the Pfizer BioNTech
vaccine be offered a second dose of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine.
As a reminder, the first vaccine dose
gives a high level of protection against serious disease, and that
high level of protection we know lasts for at least 12—16 weeks.
The second dose, nonetheless, reinforces
that protection from the first dose and it is
important in extending the
duration of protection, not just for the winter
months and Christmas, but
we are also looking into 2022 and beyond.
The Prime Minister has also welcomed this latest advice on boosterjabs.
MrJohnson highlighted the need for everyone to get
vaccinated in the first place.
ﬂ
I think it is very good news that the NC VI has
I think it is very good news that the JVC VI has today authorised the
the NC VI has today authorised the booster
the JVC VI has today authorised the booster to be rolled out to
booster to be rolled out to everybody A0 plus. When you look at
everybody 40 plus. when you look at what is
everybody A0 plus. When you look at what is happening in the pandemic at
what is happening in the pandemic at the moment, just hearing in Europe
the moment, just hearing in Europe that sadly there are people in a T
that sadly there are peopla in a T you who are
that sadly there are people in a T you who are suffering badly from
you who are suffering badly from Covid-19,
you who are suffering badly from Covid—19, and they are all the
Covid—19, and they are all the unvaccinated. What is happening is
unvaccinated. what is happening is that if you ran
unvaccinated. What is happening is that if you can get your booster,
that if you ran get your booster, then your
that if you can get your booster, then your immunity goes right back
then your immunity goes right back “P
then your immunity goes right back up to 9596. So
then your immunity goes right back up to 95%. So far, we have got
up to 9596. So far, we have got 7596 of everybody
up to 95%. So far, we have got 75% of everybody over 70 getting a
of everybody over 70 getting a booster. That is a huge number of
booster. That is a huge number of people, but it is that further 25%
peopla, but it is that further 2596 that
people, but it is that further 25% that will make all the difference
that will make all the difference to the winter, to Christmas, to our
the winter, to Christmas, to our plans going forward, because it is
plans going forward, because it is that extra level of protection that
that extra level of protection that we really need. 50 the messages,
we really need. So the messages, over 70,
we really need. 50 the messages, over 70, come forward and get your
over 70, come forward and get your booster, anybody over 50 come
booster, anybody over 50 come forward and get your booster and
forward and get your booster and from the next week or so, anybody
from the next week or so, anybody over 40
from the next week or so, anybody over A0 come forward and get your
over 40 come forward and get your booster.
over A0 come forward and get your booster. We are also doing a second
booster. We are also doing a second dose for 16 and 17—year—olds. Last
dose for 16 and 17-year-olds. Last year we had to
dose for 16 and 17—year—olds. Last year we had to introduce last—minute
year we had to introduce last—minute restrictions at Christmas. If we
restrictions at Christmas. If we don’t see this happening, could we
don’t see this happening, could we see restrictions again? We don’t see
see restrictions again? We don’t see anything in their data at the moment
anything in their data at the moment to suggest we need to go to Plan B.
to suggest we need to go to Plan B. We are sticking with plan A, but we
We are sticking with plan A, but we certainly have got to recognise that
certainly have got to recognise that there is a stall of infection out
there is a stall of infection out there in parts of Europe. You
there in parts of Europe. You ran see those
there in parts of Europe. You can see those numbers ticking up very
see those numbers ticking up very sharply in some of our continental
sharply in some of our continental friends, and we have
sharply in some of our continental friends, and we havejust
sharply in some of our continental friends, and we have just got to
friends, and we have just got to recognise that there is always a
recognise that there is always a risk that a blizzard could come from
risk that a blimrd could come from the east again
risk that a blizzard could come from the east again as the months
the east again as the months get colder. The best protection for our
colder. The best protection for our country is everybody to go forward
country is everybody to go forward and get their booster.
Back to the explosion in Liverpool.
m:
We are awaiting a new some from police.
Our correspondent Fiona Trott is there now.
m:
We are expecting to hear from police, but
We are expecting to hear from police, butl
We are expecting to hear from police, but I understand there is
police, but I understand there is going to be some that they will say.
going to be some that they will say. Actually, we are going to leave you
Actually, we are going to leave you for an alpha because the police have
for an alpha because the police have just arrived for the conference.
just arrived for the conference. Let’s listening. Assistant Chief
Let’s listening. Assistant Chief Constable Russ Jackson from the
Constabla Russ jackson from the ACI’U.
Constabla Russ jackson from the ACT U. They
Constable Russ Jackson from the ACTU. They are going to give a brief
ACT U. They are going to give a brief overview
ACTU. They are going to give a brief overview and update on where we are
overview and update on where we are “P
overview and update on where we are up to at the moment. That will be on
up to at the moment. That will be on ramera
up to at the moment. That will be on camera and suitable for recording.
camera and suitable for recording. Once she has finished her talk we
Once she has finished her talk we will go to un—camera. If you could
will go to un-ramera. If you could please switch
will go to un—camera. If you could please switch the cameras offer
please switch the cameras offer after that.
please switch the cameras offer afterthat. I
please switch the cameras offer after that. I will hand you over.
after that. I will hand you over. Thank you. Good morning. I
after that. I will hand you over. Thank you. Good morning. lam
Thank you. Good morning. lam Merseyside Chief Constable Serena
Merseyside Chief Constable Serena Kennedy, and at my side is Assistant
Kennedy, and at my side is Assistant Chief Constable Russ Jackson. ACC
Chief Constabla Russ jackson. ACC jackson will
Chief Constable Russ Jackson. ACC Jackson will be giving an update on
jackson will be giving an update on the
Jackson will be giving an update on the investigation, and I will be
the investigation, and I will be updating you on the involvement of
updating you on the involvement of Merseyside Police. Good morning.
Merseyside Police. Good morning. Investigations into the explosion at
Investigations into the explosion at Liverpool women’s Hospital led by
Liverpool women’s Hospital led by counterterrorism policing is
counterherrorism policing is continuing
counterterrorism policing is continuing at pace. The
continuing at pace. The circumstances as we understand them
circumstances as we understand them to be, other yesterday, shortly
to be, other yesterday, shortly before 11am, 3 local taxi driver
before “am, a [oral taxi driver picked up a
before 11am, 3 local taxi driver picked up a fare in a Rutland Avenue
picked up a fare in a Ruﬂand Avenue area of
picked up a fare in a Rutland Avenue area of Liverpool. The fair, 3 man,
area of Liverpool. The fair, a man, had asked to be taken to Liverpool
had asked to be taken to Liverpool women’s Hospital which was about ten
women’s Hospital which was about ten minutes away. As the taxi approach
minutes away. As the taxi approach the drop-off
minutes away. As the taxi approach the drop—off point at the hospital,
the drop-off point at the hospital, an explosion
the drop—off point at the hospital, an explosion occurred from within
an explosion occurred from within the far.
an explosion occurred from within the car. This quickly engulfed in
the far. This quickly engulfed in ﬂames.
the car. This quickly engulfed in flames. Remarkably, the taxi driver
ﬂames. Remarkably, the taxi driver esraped from
flames. Remarkably, the taxi driver escaped from the cab. He is being
escaped from the rah. He is being treated
escaped from the cab. He is being treated for his injuries. He has now
treated for his injuries. He has now been released from hospital.
been released from hospital. Emergency services quickly attended
Emergency services quickly attended the scene, and Merseyside Fire and
the scene, and Merseyside Fire and rescue extinguish the flames. It
rescue extinguish the ﬂames. It quickly
rescue extinguish the flames. It quickly became apparent then that
quickly became apparent than that the
quickly became apparent then that the passenger remained in the
the passenger remained in the vehicle and was deceased. Army
vehicle and was deceased. Army ordnance disposal officer had
ordnance disposal officer had examined the scene at the hospital
examined the scene at the hospital and made the area safe. Following
and made the area safe. Following discussions at army ordnance and
discussions at army ordnance and disposal we are able to confirm that
disposal we are able to confirm that this is to be treated as the
this is to be treated as the ignition of an explosive device. Our
ignition of an explosive device. Our inquiries also indicate that it was
inquiries also indicate that it was brought into the cab by the
brought into the cab by the passenger. We believe we know the
passenger. We believe we know the identity of the passenger but we
identity of the passenger but we cannot confirm it at this time. Our
cannot confirm it at this time. Our enquiries have led us to two
enquiries have led us to two addresses. The first was Sutcliffe
addresses. The first was Sutdiffe Street
addresses. The first was Sutcliffe Street in the Kensington area of
Street in the Kensington area of Liverpool. At this location, three
Liverpool. At this location, three men 21, 26, and 29 were arrested
men 21, 26, and 29 were arrested yesterday under section 21 of the
yesterday under section 21 of the terrorism act. A short while ago,
terrorism act. A short whila ago, again in the
terrorism act. A short while ago, again in the Kensington area, a
again in the Kensington area, a further man aged 20 was arrested
further man aged 20 was arrested under section 41 of the terrorism
under section 41 of the terrorism act. They will be interviewed later
act. They will be interviewed later today by counterterrorism
today by counterterrorism detectives. The Sutcliffe Street
detectives. The Sutcliffe Street address was searched overnight and
address was searched overnight and further searches will take place
further searches will take place today. A second address has also
today. A second address has also been searched at Rutland Avenue in
been searched at Ruﬂand Avenue in Sefbon
been searched at Rutland Avenue in Sefton Park. At this location,
Sefbon Park. At this location, significant
Sefton Park. At this location, significant items have been found.
significant items have been found. Further searches will be necessary
Further searches will be necessary today, and potentially into the
today, and potentially into the coming days. According is in place
coming days. According is in place at this location and eight families
at this [oration and eight families have
at this location and eight families have been evacuated at this time.
have been evacuated at this time. The scene at the hospital remains in
The scene at the hospital remains in place with specialist examinations
place with specialist examinations ongoing. It is not clear what the
ongoing. It is not clear what the motivation of this incident is.
motivation of this incident is. Aaron Crow 7 our enquiries indicate
Aaron Crow ? our enquiries indicate that N
Aaron Crow 7 our enquiries indicate that N explosive device has been
that N explosive device has been manufactured and that it was built
manufactured and that it was built by the passenger in the taxi. The
by the passenger in the taxi. The reason why he then took it to the
reason why he then took it to the women’s Hospital is unknown, as is
women’s Hospital is unknown, as is the reason for its sudden explosion.
the reason for its sudden explosion. We are of course aware that the
We are of course aware that the remembrance events just a short
remembrance events just a short distance away from the hospital, and
distance away from the hospital, and that the ignition occurred shortly
that the ignition occurred shortly before Ham. We cannot at this time
before “am. We cannot at this time draw any
before Ham. We cannot at this time draw any connection with this, but
draw any connection with this, but it is a line of enquiry which we are
it is a line of enquiry which we are pursuing. Although the motivation
pursuing. Although the motivation for this incident is yet to be
for this incident is yet to be understood, given all the
understood, given all the circumstances, it has been declared
circumstances, it has been declared a terrorist incident and
a terrorist incident and counterterrorism policing are
counterherrorism policing are continuing
counterterrorism policing are continuing with the investigation.
continuing with the investigation. Our enquiries will now seek to
Our enquiries will now seek to understand how the device was built,
understand how the device was built, the motivation for the incident and
the motivation for the incident and to understand if anyone else was
to understand if anyone else was involved in it. Thank you. I
involved in it. Thank you. I completely understand that
completely understand that communities in the seaside may be
communities in the seaside may be concerned. I can assure you that my
concerned. I can assure you that my offices are out and about on the
offices are out and about on the ground providing high visibility and
ground providing high visibility and reassurance. There is no specific
reassurance. There is no specific threat to the area, but I have asked
threat to the area, but I have asked for patrols to be increased
for patrols to be increased right across Merseyside. Incidents
for patrols to be increased right across Merseyside. Incidents such as
across Merseyside. Incidents such as this are very rare. But I would ask
this are very rare. But I would ask peopla to
this are very rare. But I would ask people to remain calm, but also be
peopla to remain ralm, but also be vigilant and
people to remain calm, but also be vigilant and alert. There has also
vigilant and alert. There has also been lots of speculation on social
been lots of speculation on social media and false reports of further
media and false reports of further incidents. For
media and false reports of further incidents. Forthat
media and false reports of further incidents. For that reason,
media and false reports of further incidents. Forthat reason, I
media and false reports of further incidents. For that reason, I would
incidents. For that reason, I would urge members of the public to rely
urge members of the public to rely on official information which will
on official information which will be released on our Twitter feed at
be released on our Twitter feed at Mersey police and the Merseyside
Mersey police and the Merseyside Police website for information, or
Police website for information, or at GNP police. The people of
at GNP police. The peopla of Liverpool
at GNP police. The people of Liverpool and Merseyside are well
Liverpool and Merseyside are well known for supporting each other, and
known for supporting each other, and at a time like this, this is needed
at a time like this, this is needed more than ever. Officers from
more than ever. Officers from counterterrorism policing north—west
counterherrorism policing north-west are leading the
counterterrorism policing north—west are leading the investigation,
are leading the investigation, supported by officers and staff from
supported by officers and staff from Merseyside Police, and we are
Merseyside Police, and we are continuing to work with our partners
continuing to work with our partners from Merseyside Fire and Rescue
from Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service and the Liverpool women’s
Service and the Liverpool women’s Hospital to establish what has taken
Hospital to establish what has taken place. Merseyside Police will
place. Merseyside Police will continue to liaise with community
continue to liaise with community EWUPS
continue to liaise with community groups and leaders, partner agencies
groups and leaders, partner agencies and individuals in the coming days
and individuals in the coming days and weeks to make sure that any
and weeks to make sure that any concerns are addressed and ensuring
concerns are addressed and ensuring that we provide the best possible
that we provide the best possible service to our people here in
service to our people here in Merseyside. It is also important
Merseyside. It is also important that peopla
Merseyside. It is also important that people do not speculate about
that peopla do not speculate about what
that people do not speculate about what has happened, but we will
what has happened, but we will endeavour to update our communities
endeavour to update our communities as soon as we are able. I would
as soon as we are able. I would continue to advise people to be
continue to advise peopla to be vigilant, and
continue to advise people to be vigilant, and if they have any
vigilant, and if they have any concerns to contact the police on
concerns to contact the police on 101 or 999 in an emergency. Thank
101 or 999 in an emergency. Thank you. Thank you, that was the end of
you. Thank you, that was the end of the statements. Now 0 and day and I
the statements. Now 0 and day and I would ask that you use this 0&A. 0K,
would ask that you use this on. OK, that is the
would ask that you use this 0&A. OK, that is the moment they are going to
that is the moment they are going to turn off the cameras. Journalists
turn off the cameras. journalists ran stay and
turn off the cameras. Journalists can stay and question them, but that
ran stay and question them, but that is now an
can stay and question them, but that is now an off the record briefing.
is now an off the record briefing. What
is now an off the record briefing. what we
is now an off the record briefing. What we learned there is that there
what we learned there is that there have
What we learned there is that there have been for force arrest after
have been for force arrest after that explosion. We were reporting
that explosion. We were reporting three men were arrested yesterday
three men were arrested yesterday under the counter terrorism act,
under the counter terrorism act, there was subsequently for the rest.
there was subsequently for the rest. A bit more detail about the
A bit more detail about the passenger in that taxi. They said
passenger in that taxi. They said that they believe they know the
that they believe they know the identity of the passenger, but they
identity of the passenger, but they cannot confirm it at the moment.
rannot confirm it at the moment. Advice
cannot confirm it at the moment. Advice was brought into the camp by
Advice was brought into the ramp by the passenger
Advice was brought into the camp by the passenger who had called for a
the passenger who had called for a taxi to take him to the women’s
taxi to take him to the women’s Hospital in Liverpool. We were
Hospital in Liverpool. We were hearing there from Merseyside Chief
hearing there from Merseyside Chief Constable Serena Kennedy saying it
Constable Serena Kennedy saying it is not clear what the motivation of
is not clear what the motivation of this incident is but there is an
this incident is but there is an assumption that it was, the device
assumption that it was, the device was built by their passenger. It is
was built by their passenger. It is unknown why the passenger wanted to
unknown why the passenger wanted to go to the women’s hospital all by
go to the women’s hospital all by the device decimated when it did.
the device decimated when it did. They are also looking at the timing
They are also looking at the timing of it, just before the two—minute
of it, just before the two-minute silence
of it, just before the two—minute silence before on Remembrance
silence before on Remembrance Sunday. That is a line of enquiry.
Sunday. That is a line of enquiry. Let’s go to Vienna Trott,
Let’s go to Vienna Trott, our cormpt
Let’s go to Vienna Trott, our corrupt correspondent at the
cormpt correspondent at the hospital.
corrupt correspondent at the hospital. There was a bit more
hospital. There was a bit more detail on that briefing as we try to
detail on that briefing as we try to build up a picture of what happened.
build up a picture of what happened. Yes, and of course the striking
Yes, and of course the striking thing coming from that news
thing coming from that news conference just now is that this has
conference just now is that this has been declared a terror incident now.
been declared a terror incident now. just to recap on
been declared a terror incident now. Just to recap on what we were
just to recap on what we were hearing, it
Just to recap on what we were hearing, it was very interesting
hearing, it was very interesting that we have learned that the taxi
that we have learned that the taxi driver picked up the passenger from
driver picked up the passenger from Ruﬂand
driver picked up the passenger from Rutland Avenue, that is less than
Rutland Avenue, that is lass than two
Rutland Avenue, that is less than two miles away from the hospital
two milas away from the hospital itself, and
two miles away from the hospital itself, and who has asked to be
itself, and who has asked to be taken to the hospital. The explosion
taken to the hospital. The explosion occurred inside the car, amazingly,
occurred inside the far, amazingly, the driver
occurred inside the car, amazingly, the driver himself escape that
the driver himself escape that explosion. We can talk more about
explosion. We ran talk more about him shortly. He
explosion. We can talk more about him shortly. He sustained injuries.
him shortly. He sustained injuries. He has now been released from
He has now been released from hospital, we have been told.
hospital, we have been told. Emergency services quickly came to
Emergency services quickly came to the scene, we knew that yesterday.
the scene, we knew that yesterday. Set up this cording and dozens of
Set up this cording and dozens of police officers still here while the
police officers still here while the investigation is sentence here. On
investigation is sentence here. On the Ordinance, we have now learned
the Ordinance, we have now learned they have made the area safe. We
they have made the area safe. We are also hearing just now that there is
also hearing just now that there is this understanding that the device
this understanding that the device was brought into the taxi by the
was brought into the taxi by the passenger, and they believe they
passenger, and they believe they know his identity, but they can’t
know his identity, but they can’t confirm it. This led to more
confirm it. This led to more investigations on Sutcliffe Street
investigations on Sutdiffe Street in the
investigations on Sutcliffe Street in the Kensington area. That is
in the Kensington area. That is where those three men in their
where those three men in their 205 were arrested yesterday under the
were arrested yesterday under the terrorism act, and we have now
terrorism act, and we have now learned today a further man has been
learned today a further man has been arrested. That is for people now.
arrested. That is for peopla now. Second
arrested. That is for people now. Second address on Rutland Avenue,
Second address on Ruﬂand Avenue, significant
Second address on Rutland Avenue, significant items were found there,
significant items were found there, we have been told, and also getting
we have been told, and also getting a sense really that we know they
a sense really that we know they have been working very quickly on
have been working very quickly on this investigation. It has been a
this investigation. It has been a very fast—moving investigation with
very fast-moving investigation with lots of
very fast—moving investigation with lots of developments and we are
lots of developments and we are hearing that further developments
hearing that further developments will be continuing in the coming
will be continuing in the coming days. We are also hearing they are
days. We are also hearing they are not yet clear on what the motivation
not yet clear on what the motivation was. There is an assumption that the
was. There is an assumption that the explosive was built by the
explosive was built by the passenger. Why they were coming to
passenger. why they were coming to the hospital is
passenger. Why they were coming to the hospital is unknown, but the
the hospital is unknown, but the reason for the sudden explosion.
reason for the sudden explosion. just to recap
reason for the sudden explosion. Just to recap what we’re hearing
just to recap what we’re hearing from the
Just to recap what we’re hearing from the news conference that of
from the news conference that of course that has been declared a
course that has been declared a terror incident now. As you can see
terror incident now. As you ran see behind me,
terror incident now. As you can see behind me, investigations very much
behind me, investigations very much centred here. Also those residential
centred here. Also those residential streets that I’ve been talking about
streets that I’ve been talking about where armed police yesterday were
where armed police yesterday were involved in searching those
involved in searching those properties. What they are looking
properties. what they are looking at, we have
properties. What they are looking at, we have the car here, which has
at, we have the rar here, which has been burnt
at, we have the car here, which has been burnt out. Any potential
been burnt out. Any potential evidence destroyed. Amazingly, of
evidence destroyed. Amazingly, of course, that taxi driver escaped
course, that taxi driver escaped that explosion. It is not
course, that taxi driver escaped that explosion. It is notjust the
that explosion. It is not just the friends
that explosion. It is notjust the friends governance it is a joint
friends governance it is a joint investigation involving Merseyside
investigation involving Merseyside Police and MI5 is well no doubt
Police and MIS is well no doubt sharing
Police and MI5 is well no doubt sharing intelligence and
sharing intelligence and communications they will be showing
communications they will be showing too. just to
communications they will be showing too. Just to recap all so we know
too. just to recap all so we know the passenger
too. Just to recap all so we know the passenger that was asked to be
the passenger that was asked to be brought to the hospital died in this
brought to the hospital died in this explosion. His identity is still yet
explosion. His identity is still yet to be revealed, but investigators do
to be revealed, but investigators do believe they know who that was. Now,
believe they know who that was. Now, the taxi driver. There have been a
the taxi driver. There have been a lot of reports this morning about
lot of reports this morning about his rola
lot of reports this morning about his role in all of this, but
his rola in all of this, but certainly,
his role in all of this, but certainly, he has been given a lot
certainly, he has been given a lot of praise. Investigations are still
of praise. Investigations are still ongoing on exactly what happened,
ongoing on exactly what happened, but he survived the explosion. He
but he survived the explosion. He has been named locally as David
has been named [orally as David Perry. The
has been named locally as David Perry. The Mayor of Liverpool,
Perry. The Mayor of Liverpool, joanne
Perry. The Mayor of Liverpool, Joanne Anderson, has played tribute
joanne Anderson, has played tribute to him
Joanne Anderson, has played tribute to him this morning saying his
to him this morning saying his heroic efforts managed to divert
heroic efforts managed to divert what could have been an awful
what could have been an awful disaster. He has been treated for
disaster. He has been treated for his injuries as we have heard in
his injuries as we have heard in the news conference a short while ago.
news conference a short while ago. He has now been released from
He has now been released from hospital. In fact, a fundraising
hospital. In fact, a fundraising P39e
hospital. In fact, a fundraising page has been set up for him on
page has been set up for him on social media. We have also heard
social media. We have also heard from the Prime Minister this morning
from the Prime Minister this morning as well, saying it does appear that
as well, saying it does appear that he did behave with an incredible
he did behave with an incredible presence of mind. Just to recap what
presence of mind. just to recap what we’ve
presence of mind. Just to recap what we’ve heard from that news
we’ve heard from that news conference in the past few minutes,
conference in the past few minutes, this is now being treated as a
this is now being treated as a terror incident. We have an
terror incident. We have an investigation continuing here at the
investigation continuing here at the hospital itself where the explosion
hospital itself where the explosion took place. You can see dozens of
took place. You ran see dozens of police
took place. You can see dozens of police officers surrounding the site
police officers surrounding the site here. There are two other parts of
here. There are two other parts of the city, less than two miles from
the city, loss than two milas from Liverpool
the city, less than two miles from Liverpool women’s Hospital where the
Liverpool women’s Hospital where the explosion took place, to residential
explosion took place, to residential areas where there is also focus of
areas where there is also focus of police investigation, properties
police investigation, properties have been searched there, some
have been searched there, some houses have also been evacuated.
houses have also been evacuated. Negotiators were on a residential
Negotiators were on a residential street last night. We know that
street last night. We know that three men were arrested yesterday
three men were arrested yesterday under the terrorism act. They are in
under the terrorism act. They are in their 205 and were arrested in
their 205 and were arrested in the Kensington area. We have learned
Kensington area. We have learned from the news conference that
from the news conference that another man has been arrested.
another man has been arrested. HSZ we hear
another man has been arrested. HS2 we hear the government is to ditch
we hear the government is to ditch the eastern leg of H52. It’s a
the eastern leg of H52. It’s a really big deal to sell about how
really big deal to sell about how the public sees public transport
the public sees public transport outside London and elsewhere in
outside London and elsewhere in England working over the next coming
England working over the next coming decades. As part of that plan, there
decades. As part of that plan, there will be a lot of money, about £96
will be a lot of money, about £96 billion allocated to various
billion allocated to various projects, around A0 billion of that
projects, around 40 billion of that we are
projects, around A0 billion of that we are told will be money we
we are told will be money we have not heard about in the past. One
not heard about in the past. One thing that is not happening is that
thing that is not happening is that part of H52 which was designed to go
part of H52 which was designed to go all the way up to Leeds from
all the way up to Leeds from Birmingham. It had been a big part
Birmingham. It had been a big part of the government real plan until
of the government real plan until now. My understanding is that will
now. My understanding is that will be scrapped in the coming days. ——
be scrapped in the coming days. -- railway plan.
be scrapped in the coming days. —— railway plan. What I’m getting from
railway plan. What I’m getting from Whitehall is they will upgrade a
Whitehall is they will upgrade a number of other railway lines and
number of other railway lines and put money into other projects and
put money into other projects and the idea is that they will be able
the idea is that they will be able to deliver quicker. HS2 as a
to deliver quicker. HSZ as a long-term
to deliver quicker. HS2 as a long—term project and it would be
long-term project and it would be another
long—term project and it would be another 20 years before that line to
another 20 years before that line to Leeds was realised in the argument
Leeds was realised in the argument you will hear from the government
you will hear from the government later this week as they are going
later this week as they are going for faster and
later this week as they are going forfaster and basically
later this week as they are going for faster and basically quicker
for faster and basically quicker routes. Things that they can get in
routes. Things that they ran get in place right
routes. Things that they can get in place right away. The scrapping of
place right away. The scrapping of that part of H52 is going to raise
that part of H52 is going to raise the questions about what it means
the questions about what it means for the government levelling up
for the government levelling up agenda. The government always talks
agenda. The government always talks about wanting to distribute
about wanting to distribute opportunity better across the UK,
opportunity better across the UK, this was seen as part of it and
this was seen as part of it and there will be some MPs this morning
there will be some MPs this morning and parts of the North of England,
and parts of the North of England, some of those red wall seats the
some of those red wall seats the Conservatives won from Labour at the
Conservatives won from labour at the last
Conservatives won from Labour at the last election for the first time who
last elaction for the first time who will be
last election for the first time who will be really nervous about the
will be really nervous about the message this sends out. We have not
message this sends out. We have not seen the full package it in the
seen the full package it in the message we are going to get from the
message we are going to get from the government is that you need to look
government is that you need to look at this integrated railway plan as a
at this integrated railway plan as a whole, there is a whole lot of money
whole, there is a whole lot of money going into it and there will be
going into it and there will be significant upgrades that are really
significant upgrades that are really good, particularly for people
good, particularly for people outside cities so part of the case
outside cities so part of the case ministers will make is that getting
ministers will make is that getting to other parts of the high—speed
to other parts of the high-speed rail
to other parts of the high—speed rail network will be easier for
rail network will be easier for people who do not live in some of
peopla who do not live in some of the big
people who do not live in some of the big transport hubs but the top
the big transport hubs but the top line at the moment is that he
line at the moment is that he eastern leg of H52 between
eastern leg of H52 between Birmingham and Leeds is not going to
Birmingham and Leeds is not going to happen.
Hello, this is BBC News with Joanna Gosling.
The headlines:
Police declare yesterday’s explossion in Liverpool
as a terrorst incident.
BorisJohnson has praised the brave Liverpool taxi driver —
named locally as David Perry — after his efforts to limit
the impact of an explosion in his vehicle yesterday.
UK Government advisers have recommended the Covid—19 vaccine
booster programme should be extended to include healthy A0
to A9—year—olds and 16 and 17—year—olds should come forward
for a second dose.
After BorisJohnson admits he could have handled the row
involving Owen Paterson better, the debate about parliamentary
standards returns to the Commons today.
A report by MPs has found "serious failings"
including avoidable deaths — in the care for patients with sickle
cell disease in England.
A lockdown in Austria for anyone who hasn’t been
vaccinated against Covid has come into force.
More than 300,000 people are getting a pay boost of up
to 40p an hour from today.
The Real Living Wage, which is a voluntary
scheme for employers, is increasing from today to nine
pounds and ninety pence outside of London and to eleven pounds
and five pence in the capital.
Almost 9,000 employers across the UK are now signed up to the scheme,
which aims to ensure all staff earn a wage that meets the
real cost of living.
which aims to ensure all staff earn a wage that meets the
real cost of living.
Ryan Elder says he used to struggle on the minimum wage,
but now works at a frozen food supplier which is part
of the Real Living Wage scheme. supplier which is part
When I used to work at the pub and I was working more and more
just so I could get by.
Basically paying for rent, you know, any bills I had to pay
and at the end of the month I will try and put a little better
way to save and it would end up just coming back out of my account.
Every day I was feeling down and I was thinking
about money all the time.
Joining me now is director of the Living Wage Foundation,
Katherine Chapman.
How is it worked out? The real living wage is the only rate
living wage is the only rate calculated at actual what a cause
ralmlated at actual what a cause celabre
calculated at actual what a cause celebre such as food and childcare
celabre such as food and childcare and
celebre such as food and childcare and these are decided by members of
and these are decided by members of the public and that’s how we get to
the public and that’s how we get to UK rates which are about 40p an hour
UK rates which are about 40p an hour and the London living wage which £11
and the London living wage which £11 and this makes a real difference to
and this makes a real difference to peoples lives and means not having
peoplas lives and means not having to worry about
peoples lives and means not having to worry about money or putting food
to worry about money or putting food on the table and pay bills at the
on the table and pay bills at the end of the month. It is great we
end of the month. It is great we have seen so many employers lining
have seen so many employers lining “P
have seen so many employers lining up for it. About 9000 across the UK
up for it. About 9000 across the UK including companies and thousands of
including companies and thousands of smaller as this is like coffee shops
smaller as this is like coffee shops and florists and it means 300,000
and ﬂorists and it means 300,000 employees
and florists and it means 300,000 employees will get a pay rise. In
employees will get a pay rise. In the scheme of things what proportion
the scheme of things what proportion is that of businesses in the UK?
is that of businesses in the UK? About one inch 13 jobs with living
About one inch 13 jobs with living wage employers but we have seen
wage employers but we have seen about a third sign up since the
about a third sign up since the pandemic and seeing the fastest
pandemic and seeing the fastest growth on record of employers
growth on record of employers wanting to peoples rates. When I
wanting to peoplas rates. when I speak to
wanting to peoples rates. When I speak to businesses they want to do
speak to businesses they want to do the right thing by workers now and
the right thing by workers now and time to be difficult for
time to be difficult for businesses and everyone and a lot of the roles
and everyone and a lot of the roles that kept us going through the
that kept us going through the pandemic —like cleaners and security
pandemic -like cleaners and security guards and
pandemic —like cleaners and security guards and shop workers are on the
guards and shop workers are on the wages so we see more businesses
wages so we see more businesses wanting to sign up to payment rates
wanting to sign up to payment rates and we hear about some labour
and we hear about some labour shortages in those sectors saw the
shortages in those sectors saw the incentives are there and it is good
incentives are there and it is good for families
incentives are there and it is good forfamilies but
incentives are there and it is good for families but also for
for families but also for businesses. What market is really
businesses. what market is really interesting
businesses. What market is really interesting one third of companies
interesting one third of companies have signed up since the pandemic. I
have signed up since the pandemic. I know you said it is because the
know you said it is because the message coming to you is they want
message coming to you is they want to do the right thing by their
to do the right thing by their employers but what you think it was
employers but what you think it was in particular about the pandemic
in particular about the pandemic that made them understand the
that made them understand the difficulties employers were facing?
difficulties employers were facing? Is one employer puts it, suddenly
Is one employer puts it, suddenly the security team and the cleaning
the security team and the cleaning team while we were locked and at
team while we were locked and at home were the most important people
home were the most important people in the organisation and we have
in the organisation and we have found one of the biggest barriers to
found one of the biggest barriers to signing up with the real living wage
signing up with the real living wage rate is the organisation is so that
rate is the organisation is so that was a real step to action in
was a real step to action in highlighting how important the roles
highlighting how important the roles are and they overlooked a human face
are and they overlooked a human face of low pay and that was a spur to
of low pay and that was a spur to action for many employers. It is
action for many employers. It is making a huge difference to
making a huge difference to thousands of lives across the
thousands of lives across the country. Do you go to companies? You
country. Do you go to companies? You do not have to name and shame anyone
do not have to name and shame anyone but there must be companies you look
but there must be companies you look at that are not doing it when
at that are not doing it when you think, why are you not doing it? Do
think, why are you not doing it? Do you knock on the door and try to
you knock on the door and try to persuade them? I think it’s
persuade them? I think it’s interesting this week we have
interesting this week we have finally reached the tipping point on
finally reached the tipping point on the FTSE100 sea
finally reached the tipping point on the FTSE100 see you are in a
the FI’SElOO sea you are in a minority if
the FTSE100 see you are in a minority if you do not sign up and
minority if you do not sign up and is one of our business leader said
is one of our business leader said it is our real rest not to pay the
it is our real rest not to pay the real living wage rates now and it is
real living wage rates now and it is really great to see people go from
really great to see people go from strength to strength because as we
strength to strength because as we know the cost of living will be
know the cost of living will be going up over the next year with
going up over the next year with food and fuel prices so it is more
food and fuel prices so it is more important than ever we get as many
important than ever we get as many companies as we can to sign up.
More new on our top story — that one person has been
killed and another injured following an explosion
outside Liverpool Women’s Hospital on Sunday.
The Mayor of Liverpool has praised the injured man,
who is a taxi driver, for his heroic efforts.
What
Let’s talk to the Mayor of Liverpool, Joanne Anderson.
{11-1
we just need to support our emergency services in making sure we
emergency services in making sure we remain calm and vigilant after this
remain calm and vigilant after this incident. This morning you praise
incident. This morning you praise the actions of the taxi driver and
the actions of the taxi driver and said it was potentially could have
said it was potentially could have been worse. He was actually in the
been worse. He was actually in the rar when
been worse. He was actually in the car when the explosion went off, it
rar when the explosion went off, it must be quite
car when the explosion went off, it must be quite terrifying. Of course,
must be quite terrifying. Of course, what an awful experience and jumping
what an awful experience and jumping out the taxi he was lucky in the way
out the taxi he was lucky in the way that he did but it doesn’t bear
that he did but it doesn’t bear thinking about what could have
thinking about what could have happened. Have you managed to speak
happened. Have you managed to speak to him? I know he is out of hospital
to him? I know he is out of hospital and I’m sure there are lots of
and I’m sure there are lots of peopla want
and I’m sure there are lots of people want to speak to him. I think
peopla want to speak to him. I think it is really
people want to speak to him. I think it is really important we support
it is really important we support him in recovering. Our
him in recovering. Our communications team will have been
communications team will have been in touch but it is really important
in touch but it is really important this man is able to recover from
this man is able to recover from what much of been such an horrific
what much of been such an horrific shop yesterday. —— shock. We heard
shop yesterday. -- shock. We heard from the
shop yesterday. —— shock. We heard from the Chief Constable saying
from the Chief Constable saying there is no direct threat but they
there is no direct threat but they are stepping up police patrols to
are stepping up police patrols to reassure people. I drove past the
reassure people. I drove past the hospital this morning, there is
hospital this morning, there is plenty
hospital this morning, there is planty of
hospital this morning, there is plenty of police presence and
plenty of police presence and visibility and at the address as
visibility and at the address as well. To reassure the community the
well. To reassure the community the police are doing everything they can
police are doing everything they ran make
police are doing everything they can make sure are all safe. It seems
make sure are all safe. It seems that the police operation has moved
that the police operation has moved "TY
that the police operation has moved very quickly from what we hear. I
very quickly from what we hear. I can’t thank our emergency services
can’t thank our emergency services enough, Fire Service and police on
enough, Fire Service and police on the scene within minutes and arrests
the scene within minutes and arrests have been made so quickly all day
have been made so quickly all day yesterday and overnight, working
yesterday and overnight, working through the night with our emergency
through the night with our emergency service but also other authorities,
service but also other authorities, everyone is on standby ready to take
everyone is on standby ready to take action and give support whenever it
action and give support whenever it is needed. What is your role now?
is needed. what is your role now? Obviously to
is needed. What is your role now? Obviously to assure our residents
Obviously to assure our residents and get the information they need
and get the information they need and make sure everyone remains calm
and make sure everyone remains calm and deal with any issues or queries
and deal with any issues or queries you may have and do everything we
you may have and do everything we ran to
you may have and do everything we can to follow the instructions given
ran to follow the instmctions given to us by the
can to follow the instructions given to us by the police and the
to us by the police and the counterterrorism unit. We had in the
counterherrorism unit. We had in the news
counterterrorism unit. We had in the news conference that some residents
news conference that some residents in particular have been disrupted by
in particular have been dismpted by the police
in particular have been disrupted by the police operation and I think
the police operation and I think they said eight households have been
they said eight households have been evacuated because of the searches
evacuated because of the searches they have been doing. I was aware we
they have been doing. I was aware we had provided to tell accommodation
had provided to tell accommodation last night --
had provided to tell accommodation last night —— hotel accommodation
last night -- hotel accommodation but most
last night —— hotel accommodation but most people are able to get
but most peopla are able to get about
but most people are able to get about their business in the city and
about their business in the city and the police are doing everything they
the police are doing everything they ran to keep
the police are doing everything they can to keep Sol one of the things we
ran to keep Sol one of the things we ran sort of
can to keep Sol one of the things we can sort of take in a positive sense
ran sort of take in a positive sense is just to look at
can sort of take in a positive sense is just to look at how it could
is just to look at how it could have been, the concerns around the fact
been, the concerns around the fact that as you say this morning it
that as you say this morning it could have been a worse situation we
could have been a worse situation we were looking at. It doesn’t bear
were looking at. It doesn’t bear thinking about and what an heroic
thinking about and what an heroic effort from the taxi driver, how
effort from the taxi driver, how quickly he coped to lock the taxi
quickly he coped to lock the taxi and get out of the taxi. Thank you
and get out of the taxi. Thank you so much for
and get out of the taxi. Thank you so much forjoining us.
Six months after a damning report into the BBC’s handling
of Princess Diana’s 1995 Parorama interview, her brother
says he believes there’s "still more to come out".
Speaking exclusively to BBC Breakfast, Earl Spencer said
"big questions" remain, after former BBCjournalist
Martin Bashir was found to have used "deceitful behaviour" to help
secure her consent.
He made the comments while showing Sally Nugent
around the Althorp Estate, which is the subject
of a new documentary.
I’ve known forever that there was a lost village in the park here.
That block around the tree, that’s just not natural.
There’s always something new to find with this house and the park,
there’s so much history contained in these walls and we’ve just
scraped the surface with this one.
The archaeologists have uncovered evidence of an Iron Age roundhouse
and now, where they thought there might be a buried road,
they’re finding signs of ancient earthworks.
It’s very historic.
I reckon all of England was like this with so much underneath it.
But so much has been developed or farmed that it’s been lost.
But because this park is unspoiled, it’s still here.
Is it right that The Crown wanted to use this as a location?
They did, they applied, they wanted to shoot here.
I don’t really do that stuff.
So, yeah, these are all sort of members of the family here.
Down the bottom here is more generals and all that sort of thing.
But it used to be an open courtyard this, within the Tudor times.
And are you constantly repairing it?
Yes, there’s a lot going on.
We are sitting here on this magnificent staircase,
surrounded by lots of pairs of eyes looking at us.
How aware of all of these people are you?
I took over running this place 30 years ago when I was 27.
And I remember when I first walked through here as the sort
of nominal owner, as it were, I really was nervous.
You look at these people, they’ve lived here many hundreds
of years ago and I did feel, my goodness, they’rejudging how I’m
going to play this hand.
You were really young!
I was really young but when you’re 27 you don’t know
you are really young.
There’s a picture of you at the top of the staircase,
what are you holding in your hand?
So there’s a painting of Diana up there, which was painted
by an American artist called Nelson Shanks and he came
to view it in situ here.
And then he said he’d like to do one of me and link the two together.
So that’s actually the notes I made when writing the eulogy
for Diana’s funeral.
It’s several months now since the BBC was found to have been
woefully inadequate in its handling of the interview that Martin Bashir
did with your late sister, the Princess of Wales,
at the time.
Now you’ve had some time to reflect on that and think
about what happened, how do you feel about that finding?
Actually, Lord Dyson did a very good job.
His brief was tiny, it was to look at a very specific area
and there’s still so much more to look at in the broader terms
of who was responsible for what and how did it
come to this?
Did documents get hidden from view and all sorts of really important
stuff which is yet to come out.
So I see the Lord Dyson report as a very welcome development,
but there’s still a very long way to go with this.
How far is there to go, what more can be done?
I’ve been doing quite a lot behind the scenes.
But it’s clear to me that there are certain people
who were in the BBC who have behaved in a way that is truly abysmal
and possibly criminal.
How far can you take that now yourself, personally?
That’s the question and I’ve got people looking
at that and we’ll see.
But it’s not going to end now, I’m not saying that as some ugly
threat, itjust can’t stop here because there’s
still more to come out.
When you look back on your childhood in this house, what are the things
that stay in your mind now?
This staircase, of course it’s very grand, but for the children
in my family it’s where you can get a lot of speed up
on a tray, coming down on it like a toboggan, really.
No, I look in this hallway and I actually look
forward to Christmas.
So in a month or so we will put up a Christmas tree that’s been grown
especially on the estate each year.
We do a very traditional English Christmas here
and it just looks right.
Today a Flintshire mum—of—two who was left
relying on a wheelchair after having her legs amputated 7
will see her specially adapted home for the first time after more
than 70 volunteer builders from across the UK answered charity
Band of Builders call to help transform her house.
Cher Little contracted Meningococcal Septicaemia
this time last year — a rare and often fatal
bloodstream infection — shejoins us now, along
with Kevin Cox who is the project manager at Band
of Builders.
Cher, you have been through an awful experience. Tell us the impact it
experience. Tell us the impact it has had on you. It had a massive
has had on you. It had a massive impact on my life, my whole life
impact on my life, my whola life changed in a
impact on my life, my whole life changed in a matter of months and it
changed in a matter of months and it was a stmggle.
changed in a matter of months and it was a struggle. You were given, or
was a stmggle. You were given, or your family
was a struggle. You were given, or yourfamily were told
was a struggle. You were given, or your family were told there was only
your family were told there was only a 20% chance of you surviving. I was
a 2096 chance of you surviving. I was only given a 2096
a 20% chance of you surviving. I was only given a 20% chance of surviving
only given a 2096 chance of surviving because
only given a 20% chance of surviving because all my organs had actually
because all my organs had actually failed at that point so I am very
failed at that point so I am very lucky to be here. But it has been
lucky to be here. But it has been life changing for you, hasn’t it?
life changing for you, hasn’t it? Tell peopla
life changing for you, hasn’t it? Tell people about that and how your
Tell peopla about that and how your needs
Tell people about that and how your needs have changed. It has been life
needs have changed. It has been life changing not only for myself but for
changing not only for myself but for my family as well just having
changing not only for myself but for my family as welljust having Band
my family as well just having Band of
my family as welljust having Band of Builders come and do the most
of Builders come and do the most amazing transformation on my home is
amazing transformation on my home is just unbelievable. Explain what
just unbelievable. Explain what needed to be done in order to enable
needed to be done in order to enable you to live there. We needed the
you to live there. We needed the whole of the kitchen opened out and
whole of the kitchen opened out and we needed a wet room installation
we needed a wet room installation and a ground floor transformation
and a ground ﬂoor transformation with a
and a ground floor transformation with a bed in as well. And so the
with a bed in as well. And so the team of angels, as I assume you see
team of angels, as I assume you see them, stepped up? They really did.
them, stepped up? They really did. Absolutely amazing what they have
Absolutely amazing what they have done, absolutely outstanding. Kevin,
done, absolutely outstanding. Kevin, tell us more about what it is that
tell us more about what it is that you do with Band of Builders. We are
you do with Band of Builders. We are a charity set up by tradesmen to
a charity set up by tradesmen to help tradesmen in their time of need
help tradesmen in their time of need be that through medical necessity or
be that through medical necessity or hardship, we will go and adapt homes
hardship, we will go and adapt homes and do changes
hardship, we will go and adapt homes and do changesjust improve
hardship, we will go and adapt homes and do changes just improve peoples
and do changes just improve peoplas lives.
and do changes just improve peoples lives. How much satisfaction do you
lives. How much satisfaction do you get from doing that work? So much
get from doing that work? So much everything we do, all the hardships
everything we do, all the hardships are worth it to see the persons face
are worth it to see the persons face when we do it and give it back
when we do it and give it back to them. Cher, how did you feel when
them. Cher, how did you feel when you saw the grand unveiling? I was
you saw the grand unveiling? I was just absolutely amazed and couldn’t
just absolutely amazed and couldn’t believe how much work it actually
believe how much work it actually been done. I did not picture the
been done. I did not picture the amount of work needing done in my
amount of work needing done in my mind this is what we have been
mind this is what we have been waiting to see, I think this is the
waiting to see, I think this is the before and after here we go. I don’t
before and after here we go. I don’t know if you ran
before and after here we go. I don’t know if you can see what we are
know if you ran see what we are seeing. Is that
know if you can see what we are seeing. Is that you? I cannot really
seeing. Is that you? I cannot really see, Kevin. That is not you. You
see, Kevin. That is not you. You cannot see what I can see. It is
cannot see what I ran see. It is walking
cannot see what I can see. It is walking through midway through the
walking through midway through the building work here and it is often
building work here and it is often not finished that it looks like it
not finished that it looks like it has been opened out at this point.
has been opened out at this point. The kitchen. I am hoping that as
The kitchen. I am hoping that as the video goes on, I do not know how
video goes on, I do not know how long there is to run on it. Maybe
long there is to nm on it. Maybe we will see
long there is to run on it. Maybe we will see the fully finished job.
will see the fully finished job. There is the wet room you mentioned
There is the wet room you mentioned there, Cher. We are going along a
there, Cher. We are going along a green corridor. That leads to what?
green corridor. That leads to what? It leads to the new bedroom. That is
It leads to the new bedroom. That is where we are now. That was a massive
where we are now. That was a massive project and an amazing gift, Kevin,
project and an amazing gift, Kevin, for you and all the others who
for you and all the others who worked on this for nothing. We do
worked on this for nothing. We do not work alone, we have corporate
not work alone, we have corporate sponsors that donate massive amounts
sponsors that donate massive amounts in monetary terms and materials to
in monetary terms and materials to our projects and without them we
our projects and without them we would not be able to do half as much
would not be able to do half as much as we are able to do. I was
as we are able to do. I was wondering about the materials and
wondering about the materials and everything needed. How does that
everything needed. How does that work? It is alternated? Yes, we have
work? It is alternated? Yes, we have very small budgets out of our own
very small budgets out of our own finances and rely on the generosity
finances and rely on the generosity of large companies and even some of
of large companies and even some of the small independent
the small independent companies donated materials to us. The time
donated materials to us. The time comes from the volunteers but every
comes from the volunteers but every person who gives an hour moves the
person who gives an hour moves the project on an hour. Everything works
project on an hour. Everything works in harmony together. Cher, F Band of
in harmony together. Cher, F Band of Builders had not stepped up and done
Builders had not stepped up and done this for you, what would life of
this for you, what would life of been light? A massive struggle, I
been light? A massive stmggle, I could
been light? A massive struggle, I could not have got around that the
could not have got around that the PWPe’tY
could not have got around that the property and it would have been
property and it would have been really difficult and physically
really difficult and physically difficult as well. What have you
difficult as well. what have you said? I
difficult as well. What have you said? I think my face said it all.
said? I think my face said it all. Kevin, this is honestly really
Kevin, this is honestly really important
Kevin, this is honestly really importantjob, they are all
importantjob, they are all obviously life changing for the
obviously life changing for the peopla
obviously life changing for the people you work with. How often are
peopla you work with. How often are you actually
people you work with. How often are you actually doing the sort of work?
you actually doing the sort of work? We try to do as many projects within
We try to do as many projects within a year as we ran
We try to do as many projects within a year as we can but it takes a
a yearaswe ran but ittakesa lot of
a year as we ran but it takes a lot of planning and
a year as we can but it takes a lot of planning and obviously in most
of planning and obviously in most instances we have to have planning
instances we have to have planning permission which takes time, so
instances we have to have planning permission which takes time, sol
permission which takes time, so I think for
permission which takes time, sol think for the last two years we have
think for the last two years we have averaged five or six projects per
averaged five or six projects per year which is pretty good going but
year which is pretty good going but obviously we hope to improve on that
obviously we hope to improve on that and streamline and get more done.
and streamline and get more done. Thank you so much for
and streamline and get more done. Thank you so much forjoining us.
Turkey farmers across the UK have spent several months worrying
about Christmas supply, following staffing shortages caused
by the pandemic and Brexit.
To ease pressure on the supply chain, last month, the Government
introduced a temporary visa scheme for seasonal poultry workers.
With more than 3,000 of them already on their way to the UK,
the industry is now confident that turkey will still be
on the festive menu — as our business correspondent
Emma Simpson reports.
Christmas is coming and the turkeys are nice and fat.
TURKEYS GOBBLE.
After months of worry, Paul Kelly’s now got
his seasonal workers, including 22 of them,
through the temporary visa scheme.
It’s about 20% of our workforce so it was
very touch and go for us.
We had many sleepless nights up until the last week
in September when we got the green light when we could
get some visas.
Christmas has been saved.
Christmas has been saved — at this point in time.
More than 2,500 temporary workers will be arriving in the UK
in the coming days.
That’s about half as many as the industry
originally was asking for.
TURKEYS GOBBLE ALL AT ONCE.
But it should be enough, partly because a few birds
have been reared this year because some farmers
were worried about getting enough staff.
So will there be enough turkeys to go round?
There will definitely be enough turkeys for Christmas.
I think there will be a focus on whole birds
and very simple crowns and roasts.
This streamlining of our product choice has helped us
in terms of overall volume.
Amid all the supply chain problems, turkeys
at least are now back on track, but the industry’s calling
for a permanent solution to ensure it gets the seasonal
workers its needs.
Emma Simpson, BBC News, Chelmsford.
Hello again.
We have had some dense fog patches across parts of England
and Wales this morning.
And most of that now lifting.
We also have a weather front bumping into an area of high
pressure so it is weakening.
Still some rain in it, though.
And later we have another front coming our way.
So for England and Wales we will see some brighter breaks develop in this
cloud but it will be thick enough for some drizzle in some Western
and south—western parts.
Meanwhile, here is our band of rain.
But behind it for Scotland and Northern Ireland,
a lot of dry weather, a lot of sunshine, but the cloud
building out towards the west with temperatures between 10—13 C.
As we head on through the evening and overnight, our week weather
front continues its journey moving south, with some spots of rain.
There will be some patchy mist and fog forming,
not as widespread as last night.
And at the same time, another weather front comes
on across the north west bringing strengthening winds
and also some rain.
Overnight lows of between 6—9 C.
So tomorrow, we do still have that weather front coming
in across the north west.
One look at those isobars tells you it’s going to be windy here.
But we also still have a ridge of high pressure in the southern areas.
50 things fairly quiet in the south.
Any patchy mist and fog that is formed overnight should lift.
There will still be the remnants of a weather front producing
a cloud, the odd spot of rain, but the heaviest rain will be coming
on across the north west, with gusts to gale force
in the northern and western isles and the far north
of mainland Scotland.
But you can see how the weather front starts to fragment
through the course of the day.
Temperatures very similar to today, we are looking at about ten —
13 north to south.
As we had from Tuesday into Wednesday, our weather front
eventually pushes down towards the south—east
and clears away.
You can see too from the isobars across the far north of Scotland
it’s going to be windy here, and there will also be some showers.
Some of those on the tops of the mountains are
likely to be wintry.
But there will be a lot of dry weather around as well,
and a decent amount of sunshine across parts of England and Wales,
and also eastern Scotland.
A few showers and some drizzle getting into the west.
Temperatures are lower in the north.
We are looking at eights and nines.
But as we can further south, 10—13 will be the order of the day.
Then as we head on into the latter part of the week, still a fair
bit of cloud around, still some rain at times
across the north and the west, or showers, but still mild.
It’s as we go into the early part of next week it turns colder.
This is BBC News.
The headlines...
An explosion outside Liverpool Women’s Hospital
on Remembrance Sunday is declared a terror incident by police.
m:
We are able to confirm that this is being treated at the ignition of an
being treated at the ignition of an explosive device. Our enquiries also
explosive device. Our enquiries also indicate that the device was brought
indicate that the device was brought into the cab by the passenger. We
into the rah by the passenger. We believe
into the cab by the passenger. We believe we know the identity of the
believe we know the identity of the passenger but we cannot confirm this
passenger but we cannot confirm this at this time.
BorisJohnson has praised the ‘brave’ Liverpool taxi driver —
named locally as David Perry — after his efforts to limit
the impact of an explosion in his vehicle yesterday.
It does look as though the taxi driver in question did behave with
incredible presence of mind and bravery.
The Prime Minister has been visiting a GP surgery as government
advisers recommend the Covid—19 vaccine booster programme should be
extended to include healthy A0 to A9—year—olds and 16
and 17—year—olds should come forward for a second dose.
When you are called for your booster dose in the next phase, you can come
forward confident that the benefits in preventing serious Covid—19far
outweigh any risks.
The BBC understands that the Integrated Rail Plan,
to be published in just a few days’ time, is expected to reveal cuts
to the Eastern leg of H52 between the West Midlands and Leeds.
After BorisJohnson admits he could have handled the row
involving Owen Paterson better, the debate about parliamentary
standards returns to the Commons today.
A report by MPs finds "serious failings" including avoidable deaths
in the care for patients with sickle cell disease in England.
Assurances there will "definitely" be enough turkeys
for Christmas after fears there could be a shortage.
An explosion in a taxi outside Liverpool Women’s Hospital
yesterday has been declared a terrorist incident.
A fourth person has been arrested under the Terrorism Act
in connection with the explosion.
A male passenger in the cab was killed in the blast.
There has been praise for the taxi driver, David Perry,
who was injured in yesterday’s car explosion in the city,
for his heroic efforts.
We’re about to show
you pictures of the moment that the car exploded.
Just a warning that some viewers may find it distressing and so may wish
to turn away for a few moments.
Here the car enters the Liverpool
Women’s Hospital car park.
And then this security camera footage shows
the device being detonated.
ii
It shows that exact moment of the explosion.
A short time later the driver, Mr Perry, can be seen
getting out of the taxi.
People
People running as they obviously
People mnning as they obviously realise
People running as they obviously realise what has happened and the
realise what has happened and the fire starting, that huge amount of
fire starting, that huge amount of smoke is the explosion happened
smoke is the explosion happened just... It was so quick. The vehicle
just... It was so quick. The vehida had to stop the
just... It was so quick. The vehicle had to stop the moving and then
had to stop the moving and then the explosion happened. The driver
explosion happened. The driver managed to get out and run away from
managed to get out and nm away from that
managed to get out and run away from that vehicle. It happened just
that vehicle. It happened just before 11am on Remembrance Sunday is
before 11am on Remembrance Sunday is a national two—minute silence was
a national two-minute silance was about to begin.
Within the last hour, Merseyside Police have given
an update on their investigations.
Russ Jackson, Head of Counter Terrorism North West, explained how
events unfolded yesterday.
Yesterday, shortly before 11am, 3
Yesterday, shortly before “am, a [oral taxi
Yesterday, shortly before 11am, 3 local taxi driver picked up a fare
[oral taxi driver picked up a fare in the
local taxi driver picked up a fare in the Rutland area of Liverpool.
in the Ruﬂand area of Liverpool. The fair, a
in the Rutland area of Liverpool. The fair, 3 man, had
in the Rutland area of Liverpool. The fair, a man, had asked to be
The fair, a man, had asked to be taken to
The fair, 3 man, had asked to be taken to Liverpool women’s Hospital
taken to Liverpool women’s Hospital which was about ten minutes away. As
which was about ten minutes away. As the taxi approach the drop—off point
the taxi approach the drop-off point at the
the taxi approach the drop—off point at the hospital, and explosion
at the hospital, and explosion occurred from within the car. This
occurred from within the far. This quickly
occurred from within the car. This quickly engulfed in flames.
quickly engulfed in flames. Remarkably, the taxi driver escaped
Remarkably, the taxi driver escaped from the cab. He is being treated
from the rah. He is being treated for his injuries
from the cab. He is being treated for his injuries and has been
for his injuries and has been released from hospital. Emergency
released from hospital. Emergency services quickly attended the scene,
services quickly attended the scene, and Merseyside Fire and rescue
and Merseyside Fire and rescue extinguish the flames. It quickly
extinguish the flames. It quickly became apparent then that the
became apparent then that the passenger remained in the vehicle
passenger remained in the vehicle and was deceased. The Army ordnance
and was deceased. The Army ordnance and explosion officers have examined
and explosion officers have examined the area at the hospital and made it
the area at the hospital and made it safe. From discussions with Army
safe. From discussions with Army ordnance disposal, we are able to
ordnance disposal, we are able to confirm that this is being
confirm that this is being treated as the ignition of us an explosive
as the ignition of us an explosive device.
Our inquiries also
indicate that it was
brought into the cab by the passenger.
We believe we know the identity of the passenger but we
cannot confirm it at this time.
Our enquiries have led us to two addresses.
The first was Sutcliffe Street in the Kensington area of
Liverpool.
At this location, three men 21, 26, and 29 were arrested
yesterday under section 41 of the terrorism act.
A short while ago, again in the Kensington area, a
further man aged 20 was arrested under section 41 of the terrorism
act.
They will be interviewed later today by counterterrorism
detectives.
The Sutcliffe Street address was searched overnight and
further searches will take place today.
A second address has also been searched at Rutland Avenue in
Sefton Park.
At this location, significant items have been found.
Further searches will be necessary today,
and potentially into the
coming days.
BorisJohnson says the taxi driver involved in the incident behaved
with incredible presence of mind and bravery.
This is an ongoing investigation so I can’t comment on the details of
I can’t comment on the details of exactly what type of incident it
exactly what type of incident it was, what type of crime it may have
was, what type of crime it may have been, but it does look as though the
been, but it does look as though the taxi driver in question did behave
taxi driver in question did behave with incredible presence of mind and
with incredible presence of mind and bravery. But
with incredible presence of mind and bravery. Butl
with incredible presence of mind and bravery. But I have to say this is
bravery. But I have to say this is something that is an ongoing
something that is an ongoing investigation and it would be
investigation and it would be premature to say much more of that.
and the Mayor of Liverpool, Joanne Anderson has also
given her reaction to what happened.
m:
We need to support our emergency services and ensure we remain calm
services and ensure we remain calm and vigilant at the incident. This
and vigilant at the incident. This morning you braves the actions of
morning you braves the actions of the taxi driver and said it could
the taxi driver and said it could have been much worse. We now have
have been much worse. We now have more of a picture of what
more of a picture of what happened. He was actually in the car when the
He was actually in the rar when the explosion
He was actually in the car when the explosion went off. It must’ve been
explosion went off. It must’ve been terrifying. Of
explosion went off. It must’ve been terrifying. Of course, what an awful
terrifying. Of course, what an awful experience. Jumping of the taxi in
experience. jumping of the taxi in the way that
experience. Jumping of the taxi in the way that he did. Obviously, it
the way that he did. Obviously, it doesn’t bear thinking about what
doesn’t bear thinking about what could have happened. Have you
could have happened. Have you managed to speak to him? I know he
managed to speak to him? I know he is out of hospital and I’m
is out of hospital and I’m sure there are a lot of people who will
there are a lot of peopla who will want to
there are a lot of people who will want to speak to him. I think it is
want to speak to him. I think it is very important we support him
very important we support him in recovering. Our communications team
recovering. Our communications team has been in touch, but it’s really
has been in touch, but it’s really important this man is able to
important this man is able to recover work from what must have
recover work from what must have been a horrific shop yesterday. We
been a horrific shop yesterday. We heard in terms of security the Chief
heard in terms of security the Chief Constable saying there is no direct
Constable saying there is no direct threat, but they are stepping up
threat, but they are stepping up police patrols to reassure people.
police patrols to reassure people. Yes, I’ve driven past the hospital
Yes, I’ve driven past the hospital this morning and there was plenty of
this morning and there was plenty of police presence and visibility in
police presence and visibility in the address at egg as well, and
the address at egg as well, and pretty sure to reassure the
pretty sure to reassure the community that the police are doing
community that the police are doing everything they can to make sure we
everything they ran to make sure we are all
everything they can to make sure we are all safe. And it seems the
are all safe. And it seems the police operation has moved very
police operation has moved very quickly from what we hear. I can’t
quickly from what we hear. I can’t thank our emergency services enough,
thank our emergency services enough, you know, fire and police on the
you know, fire and police on the scene within minutes. Arrests have
scene within minutes. Arrests have been made. 50 quickly all day
been made. So quickly all day yesterday
been made. 50 quickly all day yesterday and overnight, working
yesterday and overnight, working through the night with our emergency
through the night with our emergency services, but also our own
services, but also our own authorities. Everyone is on standby
authorities. Everyone is on standby ready to take action and give
ready to take action and give support wherever it is needed. 50
support wherever it is needed. So what is your
support wherever it is needed. 50 what is your role now? Obviously, to
what is your rola now? Obviously, to ensure our
what is your role now? Obviously, to ensure our residents and give them
ensure our residents and give them information that they need and make
information that they need and make sure everyone remains calm and
sure everyone remains calm and answer queries or issues that they
answer queries or issues that they may have. Make sure we do everything
may have. Make sure we do everything we ran to
may have. Make sure we do everything we can to follow the
we ran to follow the instmctions that are given
we can to follow the instructions that are given to us by the police
that are given to us by the police on the counter terrorism unit. In
on the counter terrorism unit. In terms of residence, we heard in the
terms of residence, we heard in the news conference that some in
news conference that some in particular have been disrupted by
particular have been dismpted by the police
particular have been disrupted by the police operation. They said that
the police operation. They said that eight households have been evacuated
eight households have been evacuated because of the searches they have
because of the searches they have been doing. I was aware that we
been doing. I was aware that we provided some hotel accommodation
provided some hotel accommodation last night. Most people are able to
last night. Most peopla are able to go about with
last night. Most people are able to go about with their business today
go about with their business today in the city and as you are aware
in the city and as you are aware from the press conference, the
from the press conference, the police are doing everything they can
police are doing everything they ran to keep us all
police are doing everything they can to keep us all safe. One of the
to keep us all safe. One of the things obviously that we can take on
things obviously that we ran take on a positive
things obviously that we can take on a positive senses that
things obviously that we can take on a positive senses thatjust to look
a positive senses that just to look at how it
a positive senses thatjust to look at how it could have been. The
at how it could have been. The concerns around the fact that as you
concerns around the fact that as you said this morning it could have been
said this morning it could have been a worse situation we were looking
a worse situation we were looking at. It doesn’t bear thinking about
at. It doesn’t bear thinking about and what heroic effort from the taxi
and what heroic effort from the taxi driver and quick thinking to lock
driver and quick thinking to lock the taxi and get out of the taxi.
the taxi and get out of the taxi. The Mayor of Liverpool, Joanna
The Mayor of Liverpool, Joanna December. The only Trotters in
December. The only Trotters in Liverpool at the hospital where the
Liverpool at the hospital where the explosion happened. What is
explosion happened. What is happening there now? We can see
happening there now? We ran see investigation
happening there now? We can see investigation is continuing very
investigation is continuing very much here at the site. Dozens of
much here at the site. Dozens of officers patrolling the area and a
officers patrolling the area and a mobile indications unit has been set
mobile indications unit has been set “P
mobile indications unit has been set up in the grounds. We understand the
up in the grounds. We understand the rar itself, the
up in the grounds. We understand the car itself, the centre of that
rar itself, the centre of that explosion is
car itself, the centre of that explosion isjust
car itself, the centre of that explosion is just behind that yellow
explosion is just behind that yellow police van. Investigation centred
police van. Investigation centred around that, of course a lot of
around that, of course a lot of forensic evidence would have been
forensic evidence would have been destroyed in that blaze. Also,
destroyed in that blaze. Also, police activity centred in two
police activity centred in two separate residential areas of the
separate residential areas of the city, as we heard during that news
city, as we heard during that news conference, that we were playing
conference, that we were playing eartier.
conference, that we were playing earlier. One of those areas is the
eartier. One of those areas is the Kensington
earlier. One of those areas is the Kensington area. That is where three
Kensington area. That is where three men were arrested yesterday under
men were arrested yesterday under the terrorism act. All three of them
the terrorism act. All three of them in their 205. We have also learned
in their 205. We have also learned today that another man in his 205
today that another man in his 205 was arrested in the Kensington area.
was arrested in the Kensington area. A second address in the Sefton Park
A second address in the Sefbon Park area, the police
A second address in the Sefton Park area, the police have told us,
area, the police have told us, significant items have been found
significant items have been found there. That is where trained
there. That is where trained negotiators were seen on the street
negotiators were seen on the street last night. Police have also told us
last night. Police have also told us that further searches will be
that further searches will be continuing their today, and
continuing their today, and potentially in the coming days,
potentially in the coming days, eight families have been from their
eight families have been from their homes while investigations continue
homes while investigations continue there. Of course, we have learned
there. Of course, we have learned about these further arrests. We know
about these further arrests. We know this is being treated as a terror
this is being treated as a terror incident. The question still remains
incident. The question still remains as to why this happened here at
as to why this happened here at Liverpool women’s Hospital. That is
Liverpool women’s Hospital. That is something that they are still
something that they are still working on. They are also asking
working on. They are also asking questions about why this sudden
questions about why this sudden explosion. Of course, it happened
explosion. Of course, it happened just one minute before 11 o’clock.
just one minute before 11 o’clock. People gathering for the silence
People gathering for the silence on Remembrance Sunday, so probe
Remembrance Sunday, so probe questions have been raised about
questions have been raised about that. The Anglican cathedral not far
that. The Anglican cathedral not far from Liverpool women’s Hospital here
from Liverpool women’s Hospital here and officers investigating the
and officers investigating the incident says they can’t draw any
incident says they can’t draw any connection between that and the
connection between that and the explosion itself but it is a line of
explosion itself but it is a line of enquiry. Thank you very much, Fiona.
enquiry. Thank you very much, Fiona. Let’s go to Nick old
Joining me now is Nick Aldworth, former counter
terrorism national co—ordinator.
what will be
what will he being done to ascertain how the device was made, what was in
how the device was made, what was in it and try to pick who may have been
it and try to pick who may have been involved? First of all, as it has
involved? First of all, as it has already been indicated in the news
already been indicated in the news media, bomb disposal experts will
media, bomb disposal experts will have examined the scene to ensure it
have examined the scene to ensure it is safe, and from there they would
is safe, and from there they would have probably taken an initial view
have probably taken an initial view of what that device was.
of what that device was. Certainly from having just seen the explosion
from having just seen the explosion myself, I
from having just seen the explosion myself, Ithink
from having just seen the explosion myself, I think there are a couple
myself, I think there are a couple of assumptions that might be drawn
of assumptions that might be drawn around that which is one, that it
around that which is one, that it was a low yield explosive, possibly
was a low yield explosive, possibly an intent Chanel ee incendiary
an intent Chanel ee incendiary device, or much greater explosive
device, or much greater explosive that I have failed to detonate. I’m
that I have failed to detonate. I’m sure the taxi driver feels very
sure the taxi driver feels very differently. As to it being
It’s Monday, it’s 12:15 and we’re live
in Westminster.
With me today: Conservative MP and chair of the Women
and Equalities Committee, Caroline Nokes,
the Shadow Leader of the Commons, Thangam Debbonaire,
Daily Telegraph Political Editor Ben Riley—Smith,
and the i newspaper’s chief political commentator Paul Waugh.
Today: Covid boosterjabs will be offered to all over—405.
We can massively reduce the worry about hospitalisation and
death due to Covid at Christmas.
The Prime Minister says he could have handled
the Owen Paterson row better.
So will that draw a line under the matter?
Is it time to finally apologise for your error ofjudgment?
I just want to salute you and the media
generally for keeping going on this subject.
I’m here to talk about boosters.
But Labour calls for an investigation into
the Transport Secretary and says the rules need to be tougher.
No paid consultancies, no directorships,
no second jobs, save for, let’s say public interest.
The number of migrants
France’s interior minister says it’s not his fault:
TRANSLATION: We have no lessons to receive from our British friends,
who are our allies.
But I would like to remind them that we are
neither their collaborators, nor their auxiliaries.
And did the COP summit all end in tears?
Starting a programme of some breaking news. In the car blast
breaking news. In the rar blast outside
breaking news. In the car blast outside a
breaking news. In the car blast outside 3 Liverpool hospital
outside 3 Liverpool hospital yesterday has been declared a
yesterday has been declared a terrorist incident. A police press
terrorist incident. A police press conference has just taken place.
terrorist incident. A police press conference hasjust taken place. To
conference has just taken place. To smack people
conference hasjust taken place. To smack people had already been
smack people had already been arrested under the terrorism act. If
arrested under the terrorism act. If there are any other developments we
there are any other developments we will bring them to you. You heard
will bring them to you. You heard jonathan Van
will bring them to you. You heard Jonathan Van Tam the Deputy Chief
jonathan Van Tam the Deputy Chief Medical
Jonathan Van Tam the Deputy Chief Medical Officer in the headlines
Medical Officer in the headlines talking about the expansion of the
talking about the expansion of the booster jabs
talking about the expansion of the boosterjabs programme to over 405,
booster jabs programme to over 405, and opening up
boosterjabs programme to over 405, and opening up second jabs were
and opening up second jabs were 16-17
and opening up second jabs were 16—17 —year—olds. The question is
16-17 -year-olds. The question is the one he
16—17 —year—olds. The question is the one he raises which as he
the one he raises which as he believes it will massively reduce
believes it will massively reduce the worry about rising
the worry about rising hospitalisation and death from Covid
hospitalisation and death from Covid over the winter, do you agree,
over the winter, do you agree, Caroline? It is good news. I will be
Caroline? It is good news. Iwill be off to get my
Caroline? It is good news. I will be off to get my booster because I was
off to get my booster because I was not quite 15 yet. I’m looking
not quite 15 yet. I’m looking forward to that. It is about —— not
forward to that. It is about -- not quite 50, yet. It is
forward to that. It is about —— not quite 50, yet. It is about allaying
quite 50, yet. It is about allaying peoplas
quite 50, yet. It is about allaying peoples fears and the vaccination
peoplas fears and the vaccination programme
peoples fears and the vaccination programme has been successful so
programme has been successful so far. We now 12 million people have
far. We now 12 million peopla have had their
far. We now 12 million people have had their third jab, there booster,
had their third jab, there booster, so that is great news, but there is
so that is great news, but there is still a long way to go. Do you think
still a long way to go. Do you think it will be enough Thangam? I had to
it will be enough Thangam? I had to book mine because I am in the over
book mine because I am in the over 505 but I’m glad the over 405 are
505 but I’m glad the over 405 are being offered it as well. We know
being offered it as well. We know that there are pockets of low
that there are pockets of low take-up in
that there are pockets of low take—up in different demographic
take-up in different demographic groups. We
take—up in different demographic groups. We know some worrying thing
groups. We know some worrying thing is about pockets of young people not
is about pockets of young peopla not being given
is about pockets of young people not being given the first vaccination.
being given the first vaccination. Yes, we need to keep going with
Yes, we need to keep going with boosters, but we have two get those
boosters, but we have two get those who have not had either
boosters, but we have two get those who have not had eitherfirst
boosters, but we have two get those who have not had either first or
who have not had either first or second to have those as well. Also
second to have those as well. Also what is happening in other
what is happening in other countries, that global Val be made
countries, that global Val be made to protect everybody that is not
to protect everybody that is not really a reality. In terms of other
really a reality. In terms of other European countries, in the
European countries, in the Netherlands, there are lockdown lite
Netherlands, there are lockdown lite measures being imposed and also
measures being imposed and also enjoy many warnings of a pandemic of
enjoy many warnings of a pandemic of the unvaccinated and in Austria,
the unvaccinated and in Austria, about 2 million people have not been
about 2 million peopla have not been fully
about 2 million people have not been fully vaccinated and have been
fully vaccinated and have been placed in effective lockdown. What
placed in effective lockdown. what do you make
placed in effective lockdown. What do you make of this expansion of the
do you make of this expansion of the booster programme to the over 405?
booster programme to the over 405? Cleariy it is
booster programme to the over 4057 Clearly it is welcome news but it is
Cleariy it is welcome news but it is not just those
Clearly it is welcome news but it is not just those who are
Clearly it is welcome news but it is notjust those who are able to get
not just those who are able to get the jab but
notjust those who are able to get the jab but those who are going to
the jab but those who are going to come forward and take it up, so the
come forward and take it up, so the Prime Minister earlier said over
Prime Minister eartier said over 705,
Prime Minister eartier said over 70s, still
Prime Minister earlier said over 70s, still one in four have not come
705, still one in four have not come forward to get the booster so it is
forward to get the booster so it is great that more people can come
great that more peopla ran come forward
great that more people can come forward to
great that more peopla ran come forward to get
great that more people can come forward to get it but they still
forward to get it but they still have to act and do that. Interesting
have to act and do that. Interesting in that dip
have to act and do that. Interesting in that clip from the Prime Minister
in that clip from the Prime Minister that he spoke about their situation
that he spoke about their situation in Europe, he said we are aware that
in Europe, he said we are aware that there could be a blizzard of Covid
there could be a blimrd of Covid coming from
there could be a blizzard of Covid coming from the east, so clearly
coming from the east, so dearty there is worry
coming from the east, so clearly there is worry about that in Downing
there is worry about that in Downing Street. Paul, your view? The Prime
Street. Paul, your view? The Prime Minister is suffering us up for
Minister is suffering us up for another winter wave. So they

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 15/11/2021, BBC2 England, 135 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/3BE8494B?bcast=135665570 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)