Scotland, at times clip in north—west Scotland and Wales.
north-west Scotland and Walas. Clearer
north—west Scotland and Wales. Clearer skies developing in the
Clearer skies developing in the north—east of Scotland and parts of
north-east of Scotland and parts of southern
north—east of Scotland and parts of southern England and Wales. It is
southern England and Walas. It is going to be
southern England and Wales. It is going to be relatively mild night.
going to be relatively mild night. Fog to start the day across central
Fog to start the day across central southern England, lifting into low
southern England, lifting into low cloud then breaking up, so more of
cloud then breaking up, so more of us will see sunshine tomorrow. We
us will see sunshine tomorrow. We still have a weather front bringing
still have a weather front bringing rain across Scotland also Northern
rain across Scotland also Northern Ireland. Temperatures ranging from
Ireland. Temperatures ranging from 13 in the north to highs of 21.
This is BBC News.
The headlines here and around the world.
Energy bills across the UK could increase by hundreds of pounds
next year because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas that
bans almost all abortions.
Prince Andrew is granted access to a sealed document
which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought
against him by Virginia Giuffre.
More countries are to be removed from the UK Government’s red list
from the UK Government’s red list later today which requires
later today which requires travellers to stay in a quarantine
travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel upon their return.
20 years on from the start of UK military operations in Afghanistan,
commemorations are held to remember the A57 British personnel
who died in the conflict.
A British woman who joined Islamic State group with her young
children says politicians should open their minds to allowing them
to them to return to the UK.
And...
The physio said to me, where is your wedding ring?
And I was like, oh, no.
Andy Murray has lost his wedding ring and he is asking
fans to help him find it.
Hello and welcome if you’re watching in the UK or around the world.
Householders are being warned their energy bills could rise
by another £400 early next year after gas prices soared
to record levels.
The rise would add further cost to households following the increase
in the energy price cap last week.
That’s on top on rises caused by the higher energy price cap that
came into effect last week.
The Business Secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, will face industry
bosses later today as the sector deals with an unprecedented
spike in wholesale costs.
Kevin Peachey reports.
Just like the season’s weather, bill payers are being warned
the worst is yet to come.
A host of energy companies have collapsed in recent weeks.
Their customers moved to a new supplier are already having
to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
The price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises
in bills, but analysts say, next year, they will
still face a bill shock.
Under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year
if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
Analysts expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised
but as yet undecided cap starts in April.
Compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal
costing just over £850 a year.
We are competing with the rest of the world, the rest
of Europe for gas supplies.
Unfortunately, it is the reality.
Price comparison sites, which historically talk about how
much we can save you by switching.
The reality is that is not there at the moment,
and very few people for the whole of this year, really,
have been in a position where they would be able to save,
compared to last year.
Steel producers confirmed they halted production
at times of high demand, showing that industry,
as well as consumers, is feeling the impact
of rising costs.
Some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday
when Russia said it would increase gas supplies to Europe,
helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
But it hasn’t ended calls for the UK Government to step in.
The Business Secretary will be expected to address concerns
of the energy sector today.
But then also the worries of businesses and consumers
in the weeks to come.
Our business correspondence Victoria Fritz said the situation Our business correspondence Victoria Fritz said the situation is really
Fritz said the situation is really tough for people struggling to pay
tough for peopla stmggling to pay their
tough for people struggling to pay their bills. Consumers are facing
their bills. Consumers are facing this double whammy being corporately
this double whammy being corporately in what is going on in the wider
in what is going on in the wider market, the wholesale market but
market, the wholesale market but also what is happening in terms of
also what is happening in terms of competition in this industry and we
competition in this industry and we have seen, pretty much within the
have seen, pretty much within the last month or so, we have seen nine
last month or so, we have seen nine suppliers completely drop out of the
suppliers completely drop out of the market. Are we going to see more?
market. Are we going to see more? The money at the moment is yes, we
The money at the moment is yes, we will see fewer competitors in this
will see fewer competitors in this market and that is concerning for
market and that is concerning for customers, it is not like you can
customers, it is not like you ran just shop
customers, it is not like you can just shop around and try and find a
just shop around and try and find a better deal and Ofgem, the energy
better deal and Ofgem, the energy regulator, says if wholesale gas
regulator, says if wholesala gas prices
regulator, says if wholesale gas prices continue to rise at this
prices continue to rise at this level, the energy cap will have to
level, the energy rap will have to go up.
level, the energy cap will have to go up. Certainly, at the moment, it
go up. Certainly, at the moment, it is fixed for winter 2021 and into
is fixed for winter 2021 and into 2022. I am just reading messages
2022. Iamjust reading messages from
2022. I am just reading messages from viewers about the kind of
from viewers about the kind of deals they are on at the moment. This is
they are on at the moment. This is from jim in
they are on at the moment. This is fromJim in Lancashire, my dual
they are on at the moment. This is fromJim in Lancashire, my dualfuel
from jim in lanashire, my dual fuel bill deal is
fromJim in Lancashire, my dualfuel bill deal is running out and I paid
bill deal is mnning out and I paid £1500
bill deal is running out and I paid £1500 for the year. The best deal I
£1500 for the year. The best deal I ran get now is
£1500 for the year. The best deal I can get now is £2500. That is not
ran get now is £2500. That is not going to be
can get now is £2500. That is not going to be sustainable for some
going to be sustainable for some peopla, is it?
going to be sustainable for some people, is it? No, it’s not and this
peopla, is it? No, it’s not and this is the thing, you
people, is it? No, it’s not and this is the thing, you look at some of
is the thing, you look at some of the Government announcements about
the Government announcements about the poorest households will receive
the poorest households will receive some help but what about the people
some help but what about the peopla in the
some help but what about the people in the middle? What about the people
in the middle? what about the peopla who don’t
in the middle? What about the people who don’t qualify to be the poorest
who don’t qualify to be the poorest households for whatever reason? You
households for whatever reason? You are absolutely right, this is going
are absolutely right, this is going to be felt everywhere, it is
to be felt everywhere, it is families, people on their own,
families, peopla on their own, peopla all
families, people on their own, people all through the food chain
peopla all through the food chain and it is
people all through the food chain and it is businesses as well. We are
and it is businesses as well. We are hearing from the manufacturers,
hearing from the manufacturers, there is a paper company, it is
there is a paper company, it is quoted in a BBC article on this
quoted in a BBC artida on this which is very
quoted in a BBC article on this which is very good if you want to
which is very good if you want to look at it, it is the lead item at
look at it, it is the lead item at the moment, and there is a paper
the moment, and there is a paper suppUer
the moment, and there is a paper supplier and they are saying since
supplier and they are saying since january, their
supplier and they are saying since January, their prices of energy have
january, their prices of energy have gone up 5096.
January, their prices of energy have gone up 550%. What are they supposed
gone up 5096. what are they supposed to do? So you
gone up 550%. What are they supposed to do? So you are having
to do? So you are having manufacturers and companies saying
manufacturers and companies saying this is going to have to be passed
this is going to have to be passed on to the end consumer, so it means
on to the end consumer, so it means that we are looking at a situation
that we are looking at a situation where your energy bills are likely
where your energy bills are likely to go but also the cost of everyday
to go but also the cost of everyday goods is going to go up as well, so
goods is going to go up as well, so it is a very, very difficult
it is a very, very difficult scenario and, at the moment, it is
scenario and, at the moment, it is very difficult to understand or know
very difficult to understand or know what to do. Thank you for your
what to do. Thank you for your messages. Malcolm says I received
messages. Malcolm says I received notification yesterday from EDF, an
notification yesterday from EDF, an energy company, that my
notification yesterday from EDF, an energy c°mpany, that my monthly
energy company, that my monthly direct
energy c°mpany, that my monthly direct debit is going from £133 per
direct debit is going from £133 per month to £560 next month. That is
month to 560 next month. That is from
month to £560 next month. That is from Malcolm. Nick says over the
from Malcolm. Nick says over the last few years, I have invested in
last few years, I have invested in my home energy systems, reduced by
my home energy systems, reduced by reliance on the market for energy
reliance on the market for energy and fuel. I disconnected from mains
and fuel. I disconnected from mains gas and installed a heat pump, solar
gas and installed a heat pump, solar and a home battery system and
and a home battery system and swapped my petrol car to electric. I
swapped my petrol far to elactric. I was
swapped my petrol far to electric. I was protected
swapped my petrol car to electric. I was protected from the recent fuel
was protected from the recent fuel shortages, remember, we didn’t have
shortages, remember, we didn’t have shortages, it was a shortage of
shortages, it was a shortage of drivers, but I now protected from
drivers, but I now protected from instability in hiking in prices and
instability in hiking in prices and the answer is to reduce reliability
the answer is to reduce reliability and invest in renewables at
and invest in renewables at government and individual levels.
government and individual levels. One more, I miraculously paid
One more, I miraculously paid attention to news over the summer
attention to news over the summer and fixed, variable tariff to a
and fixed, variable tariff to a fixed tariff for a year before it
fixed tariff for a year before it went up, keeping it pretty much to
went up, keeping it pretty much to the precrisis bill. Now I am nervous
the precrisis bill. Now I am nervous about what happened next year, I
about what happened next year, I suppose I have only kicked the can
suppose I have only kicked the ran down the
suppose I have only kicked the can down the road. Gas prices reached
down the road. Gas prices reached record levels yesterday, falling
record levels yesterday, falling only after Vladimir Putin suggested
only after Vladimir Putin suggested Russia could supply more gas to
Russia could supply more gas to Europe at the Russian Deputy Prime
Europe at the Russian Deputy Prime Minister has suggested it will help
Minister has suggested it will help only if a controversial pipeline is
only if a controversial pipeline is approved. Let’s get more from the
approved. Let’s get more from the BBC Russian service is, thank you
BBC Russian service is, thank you for talking to us. So just explain
for talking to us. So just explain what the link is between wholesale
what the link is between wholesale gas prices and President Putin.
gas prices and President Putin. Well, that thing is, because of the
Well, that thing is, because of the cold winter last year, gas chambers
cold winter last year, gas chambers in Europe and gas chambers in the
in Europe and gas chambers in the United Kingdom got empty. That is
United Kingdom got empty. That is quite naturally but usually they
quite naturally but usually they renew on the summer. What happened
renew on the summer. what happened this year is that
renew on the summer. What happened this year is that it is already
this year is that it is already October but still there is a lot of
October but still there is a lot of empty space in gas chambers and that
empty space in gas chambers and that starts the panic, and markets rise,
starts the panic, and markets rise, gas prices rise, so what happened...
gas prices rise, so what happened... of
gas prices rise, so what happened... Of course, Russia was one of the
Of course, Russia was one of the main gas supplies to Europe and the
main gas supplies to Europe and the United Kingdom and overall it
United Kingdom and overall it suppUes
United Kingdom and overall it supplies roughly around 30% of the
supplies roughly around 3096 of the gas and of
supplies roughly around 30% of the gas and of course, Russia was
gas and of course, Russia was benefiting from the sudden price
benefiting from the sudden price rises. 50 what happened yesterday,
rises. So what happened yesterday, quite
rises. 50 what happened yesterday, quite surprisingly, President Putin
quite surprisingly, President Putin said he will give, he orders Gazprom
said he will give, he orders Gazprom to enlarge supplies of gas to Europe
to enlarge supplies of gas to Europe and the United Kingdom but the trick
and the United Kingdom but the trick is they want to do it their way,
is they want to do it their way, they want to use a controversial
they want to use a controversial pipeline Nordstream, not the usual
pipeline Nordstream, not the usual “Y
pipeline Nordstream, not the usual way through Ukraine and the pipeline
way through Ukraine and the pipeline is under heavy criticism from many
is under heavy criticism from many European politicians because they
European politicians because they believe it is being used as a
believe it is being used as a political tool. And so the Kremlin
political tool. And so the Kremlin is saying give its approval for this
is saying give its approval for this controversial pipeline and then we
controversial pipeline and then we ran provide
controversial pipeline and then we can provide you with more gas?
ran provide you with more gas? Exactly, they
can provide you with more gas? Exactly, they say we are ready to
Exactly, they say we are ready to help you, but we want to do it our
help you, but we want to do it our way. Europe, in
help you, but we want to do it our way. Europe, in a way, insists
way. Europe, ina way, insists Russia
way. Europe, in a way, insists Russia uses the old pipelines, for
Russia uses the old pipelines, for example through Ukraine, but Russia
example through Ukraine, but Russia has its explanation for everything.
has its explanation for everything. Mr Putin says we will be glad to use
Mr Putin says we will be glad to use those but we can’t because we are
those but we can’t because we are repairing the pipeline for the past
repairing the pipeline for the past several years, so it is quite
several years, so it is quite dangerous to do so. Of course, Kiev
dangerous to do so. Of course, Kiev thinks the opposite but Russia is
thinks the opposite but Russia is the gas supplier so it is for them
the gas supplier so it is for them to choose which pipeline to use. In
to choose which pipeline to use. In a way, you can’t take Gazprom by the
a way, you can’t take Gazprom by the hand, they have an explanation for
hand, they have an explanation for everything but it seems there is a
everything but it seems there is a hidden message underneath. Thank you
hidden message underneath. Thank you very much.
Ajudge in the US has given permission for Prince Andrew’s legal
team to get access to a confidential settlement agreement
which they believe will negate a civil claim
being pursued against him.
The claim was based on allegations of sexual assault made
by Virginia Giuffre.
Prince Andrew has always denied those allegations.
Our correspondent Nada Tawfik is in New York with the latest.
Now with the judge’s sign—off, Prince Andrew’s legal team will very
soon get their hands on this confidential document
that they believe will end the civil lawsuit against him.
In a previous court hearing, the Prince’s lawyer said that
a settlement agreement reached between Virginia Giuffre and the sex
offenderJeffrey Epstein essentially absolved anyone associated
with Epstein from any and all potential liability.
Now, Virginia Giuffre and her legal team, and Epstein’s estate,
have all consented to handing over that document and now
they have thejudge’s sign—off to do that.
But her lawyer David Boies has said that he believes this
settlement is irrelevant to Prince Andrew’s case.
He says that essentially they have the right to review it
and to make whatever arguments they want based on it,
but he doesn’t believe that their characterisation is accurate.
There will be arguments in this case, another hearing,
early next month.
A British woman who joined the Islamic State group
with her children says the Government should
"deal with the issue" of allowing them to return.
Nicole Jack left the UK in 2015 and is being held
with her three daughters in Syria, in a camp for wives
and children of IS fighters.
Her husband was killed in fighting in 2016.
The Home Office said its priority is to ensure the UK’s
safety and security.
Poonam Taneja reports.
This is no place for children to live.
But thousands do.
It’s home for the surviving children of Islamic State
group’s fallen caliphate.
Shall I fix your slipper?
Amongst them are three British sisters.
They are seven, nine and 12, and they live
here with their mum, Nicole Jack.
You, as their mother, decided to take your children
to Islamic State group territory to live under their regime,
it was brutal, there were beheadings, murders, massacres.
Why did you do that?
How would you explain that to anyone?
I don’t think even if I explain it, everyone would understand,
but from my point of view where I stand, firstly,
it was about my family being together, do you understand?
Honestly, secondly, what may have happened,
we have never been witness to it, my children and I, honestly.
You know, I haven’t seen a beheading in my life.
But her children have suffered trauma and loss.
Their father was killed fighting for IS.
And their ten—year—old brother Isaac died in an air strike
in front of them.
I really miss my family, I miss my granny, my aunties.
I miss my grandmother and my other grandmother.
I miss them so much.
As with so many children in the camp, it’s clear
in the camp, it’s not clear
how they will get out.
The UK is reluctant to allow the wives of Islamic State
group’s foreign fighters to return to Britain.
They’re viewed as a threat to national security.
However, they are willing to repatriate British orphans
and unaccompanied children.
Can you ever see an option where you would send your children
to Britain to safety on their own without you?
For us as a family, we cope together.
I know for sure if my kids were separated from me,
they will not be in a stable situation, because we are a unit.
And so her daughters remain prisoners here.
A makeshift school offers a few hours of escape.
I think it is really fun learning to make different things.
I like learning, like, different languages,
and like when you learn more things, your brain feels better.
I want to be smart when I grow up.
But there’s little hope of that as long as she’s in this camp,
separated from her family in the UK.
She records this message for her grandmother.
Love you guys, hope you guys are fine.
Me and my sisters and brothers are fine.
Love you guys.
Hopefully come back soon to see you guys.
I would love to spend time with you when we come back.
It is difficult to watch for their grandmother,
Charlene Jack Henry, thousands of miles away in London.
She wants her grandchildren back home with their mother,
her daughter.
Let her come and face the consequences.
But it is not fair and it is not right for these children to be
languishing in this place.
Enough is enough.
They have already served a six—year sentence,
without even having the benefit of being taken to court
and tried by your peers.
The British Government wouldn’t comment on Nicole Jack’s case.
They say those remaining in Syria include dangerous individuals
and not to make securityjudgments based on gender and age.
But Charlene says while her daughter should face justice,
her grandchildren are innocent.
Poonam Taneja, BBC News.
In the UK...
Charities are warning they are expecting more people
to use their services this winter, as vulnerable households
across the country could face extra financial difficulties this winter.
It follows a combination of energy price rises,
the furlough scheme finishing, and the ending of the £20 a week
uplift to universal credit.
Our reporter Fiona Lamdin has been to meet one family on low income.
When we are in here in the evening,
I make sure this is the only light that is on in the flat.
Just save power where possible.
Then, with the telly,
I always make sure this is off on an evening.
Single mum Holly and her 11—year—old daughter live in
Bristol.
Holly works in a local supermarket, but money is tight.
I look at the smart meter and think,
OK, I have got £2.50, let’s say,
and I think that has got to last.
So I think, what uses the most?
And then the telly will go off.
And I think, we will sit here, we will talk and play games.
But the telly is entertainment.
I have been at work all day, my child is now in bed,
and why shouldn’t I get to sit and watch that?
And, like many, Holly is already seeing herfuel bills rise.
She is on a prepayment meter, which could increase by £150 a year.
On Friday, I topped up using the utility app.
I topped up £10.
Yesterday, it came on that I was already on emergency.
So how much have you got?
I’ve got £9 left.
Since yesterday, I have already used £5.
It is stressful because I don’t get paid till Friday.
I have now got to hope that £9 sees me till then.
And, until she is paid, Holly cannot afford to use
the washing machine.
So it’s...
This is my washing pile.
I am not going to wash it till Friday.
It is one of the things I will put aside just to make sure
that £9 sees me through.
And all this coincides with the ending of the £20 a week
uplift to Universal Credit that was introduced in the pandemic.
The choices now are...
I’ve looked and thought, 0K, my daughter is going to have this
for tea, but I will eat later, or I willjust have a sandwich.
It is sacrifices I have made.
And I’m not ashamed.
But we shouldn’t live like it.
No one should live like it.
The government argues that as the economy opens up,
the focus needs to shift to getting people back to work.
Here in Avonmouth, this is where Bristol north—west stores
all their food for the food Bank.
They have been stockpiling in anticipation of the hard
winter that lies ahead.
We desperately need people to keep on giving to us.
We have the added complications of the universal credit uplift
finishing, furlough finishing, and the rising cost of household
fuel bills, as well as petrol.
So there is a huge pressure on the poorest
in our local communities.
And for Holly and her daughter, they look forward to the weekend
when, once she is paid, they can once again watch television
and clean their clothes.
The Biden Administration has welcomed a judge’s decision to block
a near total ban on abortion in the US state of Texas.
The White House described it as an important step
towards restoring constitutional rights for Texan women.
The court issued a temporary injunction to suspend
the controversial law which prohibits abortions
after the sixth week of pregnancy.
Thejudge described it as "An offensive deprivation
of an important right."
The state authorities have lodged an appeal.
In a landmark decision last month, the Conservative majority on the US
Supreme Court agreed to let the restrictions stand,
resulting in protests right around the United States.
Here are two women explaining their views in Texas. Everything is so
views in Texas. Everything is so much more intense and so much worse.
much more intense and so much worse. We want to see an end from a leg —
We want to see an end from a lag - to
We want to see an end from a leg - to elective
We want to see an end from a leg — to elective abortion from
to elective abortion from fertilisation, the moment
to elective abortion from fertilisation, the momenta new
fertilisation, the moment a new human being
fertilisation, the momenta new human being is
fertilisation, the moment a new human being is created. It is crazy
human being is created. It is crazy to think we had access to safe
to think we had access to safe abortion is now that is taken away
abortion is now that is taken away from us. Me and my partner came to a
from us. Me and my partner fame to a mutual agreement
from us. Me and my partner came to a mutual agreement where we honestly
mutual agreement where we honestly thought it was the best to get an
thought it was the best to get an abortion. One, two, three, abortion!
abortion. One, two, three, abortion! This is a controversial issue, it is
This is a controversial issue, it is one that people disagree on
one that people disagree on ardenﬂy.
one that people disagree on ardently. At the end of the day, the
ardently. At the end of the day, the question we ask is what is the
question we ask is what is the pre-born
question we ask is what is the pre—born child? What is in the
pre-born child? what is in the mother’s
pre—born child? What is in the mother’s womb? It is a human being
mother’s womb? It is a human being that has legal protection and is
that has legal protection and is inherent with moral value and
inherent with moral value and dignity? If so, that is what we are
dignity? If so, that is what we are fighting for and why we are fighting
fighting for and why we are fighting to end abortion.
Laura Podesta is a correspondent for CBS news and we can
speak to her now.
Tell us what the judge said in the mling. The US
Tell us what the judge said in the ruling. The US district
Tell us what the judge said in the ruling. The US districtJudge Robert
mling. The US district judge Robert Pitman
ruling. The US districtJudge Robert Pitman sided with the Department of
Pitman sided with the Department of justice with
Pitman sided with the Department of Justice with this ruling, 113 pages
justice with this ruling, 113 pages and he
Justice with this ruling, 113 pages and he said, "From the moment SB
and he said, "From the moment SB eight, the name of the law, went
eight, the name of the law, went into effect, women had been
into effect, women had been unlawfully affected from controlling
unlawfully affected from controlling their lives in way three that is
their lives in my three that is protected
their lives in way three that is protected by the Constitution." 50
protected by the Constitution." So this mling is in
protected by the Constitution." 50 this ruling is in line with a lot of
this mling is in line with a lot of what we
this ruling is in line with a lot of what we have heard from legal
what we have heard from legal experts ever since the Texas
experts ever since the Texas governor signed a six week abortion
governor signed a six week abortion ban into law, that really the
ban into law, that really the substance of this ban cannot be
substance of this ban rannot be squared with
substance of this ban cannot be squared with the current precedent
squared with the current precedent set by Roe versus Wade, which
set by Roe versus Wade, which decided that women have a
decided that women have a constitutional right to privacy and
constitutional right to privacy and making their own decisions and the
making their own decisions and the decision to have an abortion in the
decision to have an abortion in the first trimester is a private one
first trimester is a private one between a woman and her doctor.
between a woman and her doctor. Subsequent trimesters of course
Subsequent trimesters of course would have more regulation other
would have more regulation other than Roe v Wade. But the fight
than Roe v Wade. But the fight continues, doesn’t it? This is a
continues, doesn’t it? This is a fight that will likely make its way
fight that will likely make its way back to the Supreme Court again and
back to the Supreme Court again and I say again because, a few weeks
I say again because, a few weeks ago, the High Court, in a 5—4 ruling
ago, the High Court, in a 5-4 mling left the law
ago, the High Court, in a 5—4 ruling left the law in place but did not at
left the law in place but did not at that point mle
left the law in place but did not at that point rule on the law’s
that point rule on the law’s constitutionality, so they would,
constitutionality, so they would, when they review it again, if it
when they review it again, if it gets up to the Supreme Court.
gets up to the Supreme Court. Additionally, we should mention, in
Additionally, we should mention, in December, this is already on the
December, this is already on the docket, the US Supreme Court will
docket, the US Supreme Court will heal arguments about Mississippi’s
heal arguments about Mississippi’s 15 week abortion ban and this is the
15 week abortion ban and this is the most significant challenge to Roe v
most significant challenge to Roe v Wade in a generation, in that as far
Wade in a generation, in that as far as the oral arguments that the
as the oral arguments that the Supreme Court will hear regarding
Supreme Court will hear regarding the Mississippi law in December, so
the Mississippi law in December, so whatever is decided there could set
whatever is decided there could set a precedent for Texas and, of
a precedent for Texas and, of course, the other 48 states. In the
course, the other 48 states. In the meantime, how are abortion rights
meantime, how are abortion rights campaigners reacting to this
campaigners reacting to this temporary suspension of the law?
temporary suspension of the law? Abortion rights proponents are
Abortion rights proponents are responding as a victory, this is a
responding as a victory, this is a victory, but they are celebrating
victory, but they are celebrating temporarily because it is in order
temporarily because it is in order to temporarily block the ban. And,
to temporarily block the ban. And, despite the ruling, it is unclear
despite the ruling, it is unclear whether abortion in Texas will
whether abortion in Texas will resume today because there are some
resume today because there are some doctors who fear they could be sued
doctors who fear they could be sued later on without a more permanent
later on without a more permanent legal decision. Thank you very much,
legal decision. Thank you very much, laura.
Later this morning, the Queen will launch the Commonwealth Games’
Baton Relay at a ceremony at Buckingham Palace.
The Baton will travel across the Commonwealth before
arriving in Birmingham for the start of The Games nextJuly.
Reeta Chakrabarti is outside Buckingham Palace this morning.
ﬂ
I think the rain has stayed away, has it? Thank goodness it has. It is
has it? Thank goodness it has. It is a lovely scene here, as you can
a lovely scene here, as you ran probably see
a lovely scene here, as you can probably see and they guests are
probably see and they guests are arriving for the ceremony which is
arriving for the ceremony which is due to start in around an hour and a
due to start in around an hour and a half. The Commonwealth Games will be
half. The Commonwealth Games will be very important for the UK but
very important for the UK but particularty
very important for the UK but particularly for Birmingham in the
particularty for Birmingham in the West
particularly for Birmingham in the West Midlands, where they start next
West Midlands, where they start next july. The baton,
West Midlands, where they start next July. The baton, into which the
july. The baton, into which the Queen
July. The baton, into which the Queen will insert a message, is then
Queen will insert a message, is then taken around all 72 Commonwealth
taken around all 72 Commonwealth nations and territories. It will
nations and territories. It will take 294 days for that to happen,
take 294 days for that to happen, the baton will travel 94,000 miles
the baton will travel 94,000 miles before it returns to Birmingham and,
before it returns to Birmingham and, then, the message inside the baton
then, the message inside the baton will be read by the Queen or her
will be read by the Queen or her representative and that will be the
representative and that will be the opening of the Commonwealth Games.
opening of the Commonwealth Games. Here to discuss with me the
Here to discuss with me the significance of the Games and the
significance of the Games and the Commonwealth more generally, I am
Commonwealth more generally, I am happy to say I am joined by the
happy to say I am joined by the chair of the Royal Commonwealth
chair of the Royal Commonwealth Society. Good morning, Linda, I know
Society. Good morning, Linda, I know you will be part of the ceremony
you will be part of the ceremony today, you must be very excited.
today, you must be very excited. Absolutely, this is, especially
Absolutely, this is, especially after the pandemic, what an occasion
after the pandemic, what an occasion to see athletes come together,
to see athletes come together, competitors, the people to people
competitors, the peopla to peopla links
competitors, the people to people links that characterise the
links that characterise the Commonwealth, just get enshrined in
Commonwealth, just get enshrined in the Games. I’ve course, every
the Games. I’ve course, every Commonwealth country will be
Commonwealth country will be cheering for their own athletes.
cheering for their own athletes. That community spirit doesn’t
That community spirit doesn’t disappear
That community spirit doesn’t disappearjust because you are part
disappearjust because you are part of the same, well. Talk a little bit
of the same, well. Talk a little bit about the relevance of the
about the relevance of the Commonwealth because people know
Commonwealth because people know what it is but they don’t
what it is but they don’t necessarily know what it is for. The
necessarily know what it is for. The Commonwealth, I think it’s fairly
Commonwealth, I think it’s fairty unique. The
Commonwealth, I think it’s fairly unique. The Queen is the head of the
unique. The Queen is the head of the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth is
Commonwealth and the Commonwealth is a network, it is 5A countries that
a network, it is 54 countries that are voluntarily
a network, it is 5A countries that are voluntarily joined
a network, it is 5A countries that are voluntarilyjoined together
are voluntarilyjoined together because they share values like human
because they share values like human rights, like democracy, equality,
rights, like democracy, equality, mla
rights, like democracy, equality, ml; of
rights, like democracy, equality, rule of law but what makes it quite
mle of law but what makes it quite unique is the
rule of law but what makes it quite unique is the people to people links
unique is the peopla to peopla links that
unique is the people to people links that the Games represent so well and
that the Games represent so well and my charity represents, it is what
my charity represents, it is what makes it different to other
makes it different to other organisations, like the 620 for
organisations, like the 620 for instance, which is all about
instance, which is all about government and government links. 50
government and government links. So coming together, having grassroots
coming together, having grassroots competitions like the Games, we had
competitions like the Games, we had what is called a council of
what is called a council of Commonwealth societies, a lot of
Commonwealth societies, a lot of charities that are all doing
charities that are all doing incredible things, work on
incredible things, work on education, other issues, the
education, other issues, the environment and it is all of those
environment and it is all of those efforts that are centred on this
efforts that are centred on this voluntary group of nations that,
voluntary group of nations that, they want to further these values,
they want to further these values, they think it is important to work
they think it is important to work with government and that is what
with government and that is what makes the Commonwealth endure. And
makes the Commonwealth endure. And how important is the Queen as the
how important is the Queen as the head of the Commonwealth? How
head of the Commonwealth? How important is she as a figurehead?
important is she as a figurehead? Incredibly important. As we know,
Incredibly important. As we know, the Queen is heading into her
the Queen is heading into her platinum jubilee, which will mark 70
platinum jubilee, which will mark 70 years of service to the UK and the
years of service to the UK and the Commonwealth, so how long service,
Commonwealth, so how long service, her commitment to fostering these
her commitment to fostering these values by bringing together such
values by bringing together such different countries... And she is
different countries... And she is always very focused on the
always very focused on the charities, on the communities, on
charities, on the communities, on the young people, the young leaders,
the young people, the young leaders, because if you want to instill these
because if you want to instill these values for the future, that is what
values for the future, that is what you need to focus on, so we focus on
you need to focus on, so we focus on that and we are very privileged to
that and we are very privileged to organise key events for the Royal
organise key events for the Royal family, like the Commonwealth
family, like the Commonwealth service at Westminster Abbey every
service at Westminster Abbey every March, so
service at Westminster Abbey every March, sol
service at Westminster Abbey every March, so I have seen it first—hand,
March, so I have seen it first-hand, the Queen’s
March, so I have seen it first—hand, the Queen’s commitment to these
the Queen’s commitment to these values then really rewarding young
values then really rewarding young leaders who do this in their
leaders who do this in their communities across the Commonwealth
communities across the Commonwealth and then coming together and
and then coming together and celebrating those, which is what
celebrating those, which is what that service does and other events
that service does and other events through the year. And we know Prince
through the year. And we know Prince Charles will take over as head of
Charles will take over as head of the Commonwealth eventually. Do you
the Commonwealth eventually. Do you see things changing under a new
see things changing under a new head? I’m sure there will be some
head? I’m sure there will be some changes, but what I have personally
changes, but what I have personally seen is that the Royal family are
seen is that the Royal family are hugely committed to these values and
hugely committed to these values and that is what makes the Commonwealth
that is what makes the Commonwealth such an important part of what they
such an important part of what they look after and, for the Prince of
look after and, for the Prince of Walas,
look after and, for the Prince of Wales, he is very focused on the
Wales, he is very focused on the environment and,
Wales, he is very focused on the environmentand, indeed,
Wales, he is very focused on the environment and, indeed, we are
environment and, indeed, we are working with his office around that
working with his office around that and I think, to me, there is always
and I think, to me, there is always going to be, you know, some
going to be, you know, some differences but what is most
differences but what is most important is are they committed to
important is are they committed to the values? The answer is yes. Do
the values? The answer is yes. Do they see the grass roots, the young
they see the grass roots, the young people, the charities as being key?
people, the charities as being key? Absolutely and the importance I
Absolutely and the importance I think of making sure, especially in
think of making sure, especially in a divided world, that you do have a
a divided world, that you do have a platform, a network, to speak with
platform, a network, to speak with different voices around trying to do
different voices around trying to do better for the environment, trying
better for the environment, trying to improve literacy, achieve
to improve literacy, achieve sustainable development goals, I
sustainable development goals, I think that is really what the power
think that is really what the power of action and where it comes from,
of action and where it comes from, we support these values but how do
we support these values but how do they translate? And the Prince of
they translate? And the Prince of Wales is active in a number of these
Wales is active in a number of these areas. It is a pleasure to talk to
areas. It is a pleasure to talk to 7°“-
areas. It is a pleasure to talk to you, thank you very much. Well, the
you, thank you very much. Well, the ceremony gets under way very shortly
ceremony gets under way very shortly and we will have extensive coverage
and we will have extensive coverage on BBC One and on BBC news from
on BBC One and on BBC news from 11:45am, so
on BBC One and on BBC news from 11:453m, so do please watch.
11:45am, so do please watch. Victoria.
11:453m, so do please watch. Victoria. Thank you very much. Yes,
Victoria. Thank you very much. Yes, for viewers in the UK, stay tuned
for viewers in the UK, stay tuned for that.
Nine months after it was rolled out, the AstraZeneca Covid vaccine has
finally reached the Antarctic.
It was flown there this week to immunise the 23 staff members
who’ve been keeping a British research station running
through the polar winter.
Our science correspondent Jonathan Amos reports.
It is literally at the end of the Earth.
This is the Antarctic, a place of extremes where you really
must avoid getting sick.
Which is why the arrival this week of the AstraZeneca Covid
vaccine is so important.
It will keep those who work on the white continent safe.
Getting the coronavirus jabs there, however, has been a grand challenge.
It is a 10,000—mile flight from England to the Rothera station,
with stopovers required in Africa and the Falklands.
But the AstraZeneca vaccine is now in the arms
of the scientists who reside on the Antarctic Peninsula
during its cold, dark winter.
They know it helps protect in case Covid got to the station,
but also they are going to be leaving in the next few months,
anyway, so that group is going to do their summer season
at Rothera and then they are going back,
and perhaps one of the scariest
parts is when one of the team get back into UK society and Covid,
there are so many cases per day.
So we are protecting that team before they have to get back
on the air bridge flights back to the UK and back to see
their family and friends.
This is the furthest south the AstraZeneca jab has reached.
It means all continents have now received at least some doses.
There has been very little Covid, so far, in Antarctica.
Just one isolated outbreak at a Chilean research station.
International science agencies want to keep it that way and anyone
going south in the coming months will still have to quarantine.
Jonathan Amos, BBC News.
The headlines...
Energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds
next year because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas that
bans almost all abortions.
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document
which his lawyers believe could help in the sexual abuse case brought
against him by Virginia Giuffre.
More countries are to be removed from the UK red list later.
from the UK red list later. 20 years on from the start of UK
20 years on from the start of UK military operations in Afghanistan,
military operations in Afghanistan, commemorations are how to remember
commemorations are how to remember the British personnel who died in
the British personnel who died in conﬂict.
A British woman who joined the Islamic State group
with her young children says politicians should open
their minds to allowing them to return to the UK.
And Andy Murray has lost his wedding ring,
and he asks fans to help him find it.
Commemorations are
Commemorations are being held to mark 20 years since military action
mark 20 years since military action began in Afghanistan.
A57 British personnel were killed during the conflict.
UK troops left Afghanistan at the end of August, bringing
an end to the two decade war.
A57 British military personnel lost their lives in Afghanistan.
One of them was Claire and Brian Hill’s only son, James.
It never leaves us.
We don’t have a son anymore, we don’t have any other children.
There is an emptiness, there’s a hole
that nothing can fill.
Remembrance Day for most people is November the 11th, but,
for the likes of us, Remembrance Day is every day.
It’s nearly 12 years to the day that James Hill was killed
by an improvised explosive device in Helmand.
He was just 23 and about to get married.
His parents are proud of his service and his sacrifice,
though the recent return of Afghanistan to Taliban control
has been hard for them to bear.
If we were to say now, yes, James’s life was wasted,
then that would hurt us all over again, because we have to believe
that what he did made a difference and what they all did,
and that they gave so much, notjust the ones who died,
but the ones who carry on with injuries.
One hand says, what the heck did we go there for?
The other hand says, we’ve stopped any terrorist
atrocities on our streets.
And, as Claire said, another 9/11.
So it’s...
It’s very, very difficult.
And when you balance that, do you think the sacrifice that
you’ve made of your only son has been worth it?
No.
No.
Nothing is worth it.
That’s not worth anything.
I am moving with a piece of equipment over a patch of ground
that had been walked on by 30 or A0 people already and then,
massive explosion.
And I had stepped on a pressure plate IED, it functioned and,
thankfully, it was only me that got hurt but it was quite severe,
it took both legs above the knee.
Luke Sinnott is one of more than 300 British troops who lost limbs
in Afghanistan.
But he has battled through his severe injuries
with the help of sport.
He was due to take part in the Tokyo Paralympics this summer,
but, because of an injury,
he had to stay home and witness
the collapse of the country in which he once fought.
And the desperate scenes of those trying to leave.
Getting injured, not going to Tokyo and then the Afghanistan withdrawal,
you know, it’s been a mentally rough period for the summer.
From my point of view, we were on the ground,
we were moving IEDs and giving people some safety, some remnants
of safety in the country and kids the ability to go to school,
so I will never regret that, I can hold my head high
on what we did out there.
If I could make a deal tomorrow and get my legs back, I would.
My view of Afghanistan is a very clear one to me
and that is the intent of what we were trying
to do was always right.
The concept was flawed.
Too little, too late and we quit way too soon.
And that is the great tragedy of Afghanistan.
Stuart Tootal led the first British troops into Helmand in 2006.
He commanded the 3rd Battalion, the Parachute Regiment,
who suffered the first serious casualties of the war,
with dozens injured and 15 killed.
What was then supposed to have been a simple peace
support operation turned into a bloody
counterinsurgency conflict.
If you wanted to pick the positives out, you can turn round and say,
well, we gave the Afghans 20 years of an opportunity of how
life might be different.
That’s true.
The trouble is, that opportunity never realised itself fully
because the Taliban are now back in control, but I don’t think we can
be very proud of the outcome.
We can be proud of what we tried to do as soldiers, but in terms
of those responsible for the strategic decisions,
I don’t think there’s a great deal to crow about
in terms of there being a particular...
There is no victory here.
You know, we did not win that conflict.
There was little fanfare when the last British troops left
Afghanistan earlier this year.
This, the low—key ceremony in Kabul before the chaotic exit.
Wars without victory are often forgotten,
but the hopes of all those who served there and who lost
loved ones is that their sacrifice will never be forgotten.
Jonathan Beale, BBC News.
Joining me now is Afghanistan veteran Andy Reid who in October
2009 was blown up by a Taliban improvised explosive device
while on patrol in Helmand Province, he was injured so badly
that it was thought he would not survive.
Thank you very much for talking to us. who
Thank you very much for talking to us. Who are
Thank you very much for talking to us. who are you
Thank you very much for talking to us. Who are you thinking about
us. who are you thinking about today? Thank
us. Who are you thinking about today? Thank you very much. I am
today? Thank you very much. I am just thinking about some friends of
just thinking about some friends of mine who did pay the ultimate
mine who did pay the ultimate sacrifice with regards to my
sacrifice with regards to my regiment and guys any regiment I
regiment and guys any regiment I served with when I was over there.
served with when I was over there. How are you marking today? I am just
How are you marking today? I am just relaxing today, to be honest. I will
relaxing today, to be honest. I will go back down to the Cenotaph and pay
go back down to the Cenotaph and pay my respects at around 11 o’clock and
my respects at around 11 o’clock and just sit and reflect for a while on
just sit and reﬂect for a while on one of
just sit and reflect for a while on one of the memorial benches and
one of the memorial benches and think about the time that I spent
think about the time that I spent there. What do you think about the
there. what do you think about the time that you
there. What do you think about the time that you spent there, in terms
time that you spent there, in terms of your mission? I knew the mission
of your mission? I knew the mission was always to go there and train the
was always to go there and train the Afghan army and police and then
Afghan army and police and then leave. That was always going to be
leave. That was always going to be the mission. The general said in
the mission. The general said in the interview, I think if we have
interview, I think if we have positively changed one person’s life
positively changed one person’s life when we were over there, if one
when we were over there, if one person got an education, become a
person got an education, become a doctor, maybe a cure for cancer, the
doctor, maybe a cure for cancer, the sacrifice I personally made has been
sacrifice I personally made has been worthwhile. We made a positive
worthwhile. We made a positive change in that country to those
change in that country to those peopla and
change in that country to those people and that is what we have got
peopla and that is what we have got to try and take
people and that is what we have got to try and take away with us. You
to try and take away with us. You definitely made a difference to more
definitely made a difference to more than one person’s life when you were
than one person’s life when you were there. Over the period of time that
there. Over the period of time that you were there, I suppose it is the
you were there, I suppose it is the manner of the departure of Western
manner of the departure of Western troops that has led people to
troops that has lad peopla to question
troops that has led people to question whether it was worth it.
question whether it was worth it. What
question whether it was worth it. what do you
question whether it was worth it. What do you say to those people?
what do you say to those people? Ultimately,
What do you say to those people? Ultimately, may be the job were not
Ultimately, may be the job were not quite finished. That was not done in
quite finished. That was not done in the right way. But veterans that are
the right way. But veterans that are struggling, we did make a positive
struggling, we did make a positive change to people’s lives and every
change to people’s lives and every time we set foot out of camp based
time we set foot out of ramp based on patrol, we
time we set foot out of camp based on patrol, we changed peoples lives
on patrol, we changed peoples lives and that is what we have to take
and that is what we have to take away with us. Hopefully those guys
away with us. Hopefully those guys ran
away with us. Hopefully those guys can come to term without one day.
ran come to term without one day. And move
can come to term without one day. And move themselves forward. May I
And move themselves forward. May I ask you about the injuries that you
ask you about the injuries that you sustained back in 2009? Yes, it is
sustained back in 2009? Yes, it is my 12 anniversary next Wednesday. I
my 12 anniversary next Wednesday. I am a triple amputee now for lost my
am a tripla amputee now for lost my right lag
am a triple amputee now for lost my right leg below the knee, and my
right leg below the knee, and my right arm above the elbow. I am a
right arm above the elbow. I am a survivor, not a victim. I am still
survivor, not a victim. I am still here. Some of my friends did pay the
here. Some of my friends did pay the ultimate sacrifice and I have
ultimate sacrifice and I have respect for them and I have to move
respect for them and I have to move my life forward and keep moving on.
my life forward and keep moving on. And you have achieved a lot in the
And you have achieved a lot in the last few years. Tell our audience
last few years. Tell our audience about your charity, for example. I
about your charity, for example. I set upbeat handing — standing tall
set upbeat handing — standing tall foundation to try and help
foundation to try and help disadvantaged young people and
disadvantaged young people and veterans as well. I feel passionate
veterans as well. I feel passionate about helping veterans with mental
about helping veterans with mental health treatment. It has been a
health treatment. It has been a difficult time over the last couple
difficult time over the last couple of months and I have had a lot of
of months and I have had a lot of veterans phoning me personally and
veterans phoning me personally and offering them free mental health
offering them free mental health support. That has been fantastic.
support. That has been fantastic. And disadvantaged young people.
And disadvantaged young people. These people from poorer areas of
These people from poorer areas of society maybe choose the armed
society maybe choose the armed Forces as an option to escape the
Forces as an option to escape the situation they are in and if we can
situation they are in and if we ran answer
situation they are in and if we can answer those issues that they have
answer those issues that they have before they go into adult life,
before they go into adult life, it’ll put them in a better stead
it’ll put them in a better stead moving forward. That is what the
moving forward. That is what the foundation is all about. Part of
foundation is all about. Part of your motivation if I have understood
your motivation if I have understood correctly, you were expelled from
correctly, you were expelled from school, so you feel that you really
school, so you feel that you really ran help in this
school, so you feel that you really can help in this area? Yes, I can
ran help in this area? Yes, I ran relate to
can help in this area? Yes, I can relate to these kids from
relate to these kids from disadvantaged areas. I was following
disadvantaged areas. I was following the wrong path in life and I made
the wrong path in life and I made quite a few wrong choices. I could
quite a few wrong choices. I could have gone down that path and ended
have gone down that path and ended “P
have gone down that path and ended up in jail and
have gone down that path and ended up injailand that
have gone down that path and ended up injail and that kind of thing.
up injail and that kind of thing. But luckily, I chose to
up injail and that kind of thing. But luckily, I chose tojoin
up injail and that kind of thing. But luckily, I chose to join the
But luckily, I chose to join the Armed Forces and it changed my life
Armed Forces and it changed my life and made me the person I am today.
and made me the person I am today. The standards and discipline I have
The standards and discipline I have got has definitely put me in good
got has definitely put me in good stead. And when I got expelled from
stead. And when I got expelled from school, I Nova thought it would be
school, I Nova thought it would be achievable. But the Armed Forces
achievable. But the Armed Forces instilled that into me and made be
instilled that into me and made be the better person that I am today.
the better person that I am today. Thank you very much for talking to
Thank you very much for talking to us today. We really appreciate it.
us today. We really appreciate it. Thank you.
An investigation into 26 clinical trials into the use
of the horse medicine ivermectin to treat Covid has found
serious errors or signs of potential fraud in more than a third of them.
The review by a group of independent scientists challenges claims made
on behalf of ivermectin by a network of promoters around
the world and anti vaxxers who advocate its use.
Let’s talk now to an epidemiologist at the University of Warren Gong.
at the University of Warren Gong. Thank you for talking to us. Is
Thank you for talking to us. Is ivermectin a treatment for Covid? It
ivermectin a treatment for Covid? It is certainly a drug that is being
is certainly a dmg that is being used for
is certainly a drug that is being used for Covid, yes. Whether it is
used for Covid, yes. whether it is an
used for Covid, yes. Whether it is an effective treatment for Covid, I
an effective treatment for Covid, I think is the question and I think at
think is the question and I think at this point, given the number of
this point, given the number of studies that we have found that are
studies that we have found that are either potentially fraudulent or
either potentially fraudulent or substantially fraud in a way that
substantially fraud in a way that undermines the conclusions entirely,
undermines the conclusions entirely, I would say recently don’t know the
I would say recently don’t know the conclusion to that answer.
conclusion to that answer. Potentially fraudulent, so what is
Potentially fraudulant, so what is your
Potentially fraudulent, so what is your feeling about that? Absolutely.
your feeling about that? Absolutely. The thing is when we are reviewing
The thing is when we are reviewing studies from outside perspective,
studies from outside perspective, what we mostly do is look at data
what we mostly do is look at data and you ran
what we mostly do is look at data and you can identify the fact that
and you ran identify the fact that data
and you can identify the fact that data that replicates the study
data that replicates the study results cannot have possibly come
results cannot have possibly come from a trial. That doesn’t
from a trial. That doesn’t necessarily
from atrial. That doesn’t necessarily mean there is some study
necessarily mean there is some study out there that may have been
out there that may have been conducted, all we can say is that
conducted, all we ran say is that the study that
conducted, all we can say is that the study that is published does not
the study that is published does not appear to be based on real data.
appear to be based on real data. whether
appear to be based on real data. Whether that was an inadvertent
whether that was an inadvertent mistake,
Whether that was an inadvertent mistake, where people had very bad
mistake, where peopla had very bad data
mistake, where people had very bad data management practices, in some
data management practices, in some rases, or
data management practices, in some cases, or whether there was
cases, or whether there was intentional and you know guided
intentional and you know guided fraud is something that you simply
fraud is something that you simply rannot really
fraud is something that you simply cannot really assess from the
rannot really assess from the position
cannot really assess from the position that we are in. 0K,
cannot really assess from the position that we are in. OK, so from
position that we are in. OK, so from what you have been, what does that
what you have been, what does that mean for our understanding of
mean for our understanding of ivermectin? Very basically, the idea
ivermectin? Very basically, the idea that ivermectin was very, very
that ivermectin was very, very powerful treatment against Covid was
powerful treatment against Covid was based on a fairly small number of
based on a fairly small number of trials which had very enormously
trials which had very enormously positive results. And most of those
positive results. And most of those trials appear to be either
trials appear to be either potentially fraudulent also flawed
potentially fraudulant also ﬂawed that
potentially fraudulent also flawed that the results can be trusted and
that the results ran be tmsted and that
that the results can be trusted and that leaves us in a difficult
that leaves us in a difficult situation because we have now very
situation because we have now very few trials with sufficient large
few trials with sufficient large numbers of patients to determine a
numbers of patients to determine a conclusion either way, so if you
conclusion either way, so if you think about harm on one side and
think about harm on one side and benefit on the other and no effect
benefit on the other and no effect in the middle, we currently have
in the middla, we currently have bars that
in the middle, we currently have bars that kind of span all of those
bars that kind of span all of those and it is plausible that ivermectin
and it is plausible that ivermectin works, it is also plausible that
works, it is also plausible that ivermectin does not work. And so we
ivermectin does not work. And so we are kind of left waiting for the
are kind of left waiting for the logical clinical trials to finish
logical clinical trials to finish recruiting unfinished trial, so that
recruiting unfinished trial, so that we ran
recruiting unfinished trial, so that we can understand if ivermectin is
we ran understand if ivermectin is potentially
we can understand if ivermectin is potentially beneficial for Covid or
potentially beneficial for Covid or not. In the meantime, what kind of
not. In the meantime, what kind of people are promoting ivermectin? I
peopla are promoting ivermectin? I find it quite
people are promoting ivermectin? I find it quite strange leaf fears
find it quite strange leaf fears advocacy for ivermectin across the
advocacy for ivermectin across the world, there are a number of
world, there are a number of passionate groups who have based
passionate groups who have based their ideas on these studies that we
their ideas on these studies that we have now identified as likely to be
have now identified as likely to be fake. Other than that,
have now identified as likely to be fake. Otherthan that, it
have now identified as likely to be fake. Other than that, it has been
fake. Other than that, it has been used very much in the developing
used very much in the developing world, in places where there are few
world, in places where there are few effective treatments for Covid and
effective treatments for Covid and the effective treatments are more
the effective treatments are more expensive, they have understandably
expensive, they have understandably turned to what is decidedly a fairly
turned to what is decidedly a fairty safe
turned to what is decidedly a fairly safe medication that is well—known
safe medication that is well-known for being safe,
safe medication that is well—known for being safe, especially in
for being safe, especially in countries in Africa, it is used very
countries in Africa, it is used very commonly, and even if it does not
commonly, and even if it does not work, peopla
commonly, and even if it does not work, people have thought, what is
work, peopla have thought, what is the harm
work, people have thought, what is the harm in trying? I think that is
the harm in trying? I think that is the primary place where it is being
the primary place where it is being used at the moment. Thank you very
used at the moment. Thank you very much. Thank you for talking to us we
much. Thank you for talking to us we appreciate it.
appreciate it. The headlines now, energy bills
The headlines now, energy bills across the UK could increase by
across the UK could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because
hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in wholesale
of another big rise in wholesale prices.
prices. A federal
prices. A federaljudge
prices. A federal judge in the United States
A federal judge in the United States has at a
A federaljudge in the United States has at a law in Texas that bans
has at a law in Texas that bans almost all abortions.
almost all abortions. Prince Andrew is given access to a
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers
sealed document which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual
believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought against him.
believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought against him.
The RIBA Stirling Prize, for Britain’s Best New Building,
will be announced next week — in alive programme here
on the BBC News Channel.
The shortlist includes a footbridge in Tintagel,
a boat museum in the Lake District and a university building
in South West London.
Over the coming few days we’ll be looking at each of the six
buildings on the shortlist. Today is the turn of
the Cambridge Central Mosque, which features geometric columns,
timber "trees", which form the structural support for the roof.
When you enter the space, it feels very other,
and hopefully uplifting.
I don’t think, as architects, we can hope for anything
more than that, really.
My name isJulia Barfield, I’m one of the co—founders
of Marks Barfield Architects, and we are the architects
of the Cambridge Central Mosque.
We hadn’t designed a mosque before, so of course we did a lot
of research to find out about mosque design throughout the world,
and what we discovered was that, historically and globally,
mosques generally took on the character of the place
that they were in and the time they were in, so what
should a British mosque of the 20th century he like?
David, my partner, was the one who came up with this idea
of the glade of trees, and the garden of paradise.
The trees in this glade of trees became the structural trees.
This is an entirely timber—structured building.
Timber is beautiful, it’s very sustainable.
But also, it’s got that connection with nature, which is,
in Islam, very important.
That is also one of the kind of features of this place
is that your naturally somehow look up, which seems appropriate
for a sacred space.
It’s a space that is used by the whole community,
notjust the Muslim community.
The idea is that the mosque is not just a place for worship,
it’s so lovely to see there’s that sense of private ownership,
notjust for Muslims in Cambridge but also the wider community too.
You’re sort of met with his immediate calm and sense of peace,
and it’s something that visitors get to experience when they visit,
but something I get to experience everyday, so it’sjust phenomenal.
We’ve kept the energy usage down as much as possible,
as well as trying to address embodied carbon in the
choice of materials.
All the rainwater is captured, it’s used to flush the toilets
and also to help water the garden.
In a sense, we were trying to kind of combine the English
sacred architecture with Islamic traditions.
We wanted to construct something that was a symbol of hope,
that this difference is notjust about problems of integration
but is about inherent interests of bringing together different
narratives, different civilisations, different ethnicities, languages,
cultural communities.
It is a kind of celebration of the very central contribution
that Islam brings to the rainbow diversity that makes modern
Britain so fascinating.
Muslim, Islamic culture has been part of British culture for so long,
and I hope this building reaffirms that, it brings the two together.
One of the contenders for the RIBA Stirling Prize.
We’ll have more on that later today.
And there will be live coverage of the award ceremony
here on the BBC News Channel on the 14th of October
here on the BBC News Channel on the 14th of October.
A Saudi Arabian takeover of Newcastle United football club is
Nemsﬂa United football club is close
Newcastle United football club is close to being agreed. A decision is
dose to being agreed. A decision is expected
close to being agreed. A decision is expected within the next 24—hours
expected within the next 24-hours after the
expected within the next 24—hours after the proposed majority owner
after the proposed majority owner proved the Saudi state would not
proved the Saudi state would not have control the club. Let’s talk to
have control the dub. Let’s talk to Luke
have control the club. Let’s talk to Luke Edwards, I think, from the
Luke Edwards, I think, from the Daily Telegraph, who knows all about
Daily Telagraph, who knows all about this. It
Daily Telegraph, who knows all about this. It looks like it is going to
this. It looks like it is going to happen. What kind of issues have the
happen. what kind of issues have the Premier League
happen. What kind of issues have the Premier League been looking at when
Premier League been looking at when it comes to due diligence? I think
it comes to due diligence? I think there is a little bit of a fudge
there is a little bit of a fudge going on, to be quite honest with
going on, to be quite honest with you. I
going on, to be quite honest with you. Ithink
going on, to be quite honest with you. I think separation matters.
you. I think separation matters. Because the Premier League work
Because the Premier League work concerned that the Saudi state,
concerned that the Saudi state, namely the Crown Prince, would be in
namely the Crown Prince, would be in control of the football club and
control of the football club and they would be selling the football
they would be selling the football club to a state. There is nothing
club to a state. There is nothing actually in the rules that says they
actually in the mles that says they cannot
actually in the rules that says they cannot sell to a state. I can’t...
cannot sell to a state. I can’t... (“an you not? You
cannot sell to a state. I can’t... Can you not? You can’t hear me? I
(“an you not? You can’t hear me? I ran now, I’m so
Can you not? You can’t hear me? I can now, I’m so sorry. I think there
ran now, I’m so sorry. I think there is a separation
can now, I’m so sorry. I think there is a separation issue relating to
is a separation issue relating to whether the football club will be
whether the football club will be sold to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
sold to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia or whether it is
sold to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia or whether it isjust
sold to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia or whether it is just being sold to
or whether it is just being sold to its public investment fund, PIF, the
its public investment fund, PIF, the problem is the public investment
problem is the public investment fund committee chairman is actually
fund committee chairman is actually the crown prince of Saudi Arabia,
the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, there are government officials that
there are government officials that sit on the board. I think what the
sit on the board. I think what the Premier League have been given, my
Premier League have been given, my understanding, they had been given
understanding, they had been given legally binding assurances, written
legally binding assurances, written assurances, that it will be PIF that
assurances, that it will be PIF that mns
assurances, that it will be PIF that runs the football club, independent
mns the football club, independent of the
runs the football club, independent of the Saudi state but I do think
of the Saudi state but I do think there is a bit of a fudge because
there is a bit of a fudge because the chairman, as I said, of PIF is
the chairman, as I said, of PIF is the Crown Prince and there are
the Crown Prince and there are government officials on the board
government officials on the board and PIF is part of the Saudi state.
and PIF is part of the Saudi state. We have to look at that until
We have to look at that until yesterday you could not legally
yesterday you could not lagally watch
yesterday you could not legally watch Premier League football in
watch Premier League football in Saudi Arabia because the official
Saudi Arabia because the official broadcast partner were banned. The
broadcast partner were banned. The Premier League has tried to take
Premier League has tried to take legal action nine times against
legal action nine times against those responsible and has been
those responsible and has been blocked by the Saudi state. They
blocked by the Saudi state. They were effectively being asked to sell
were effectively being asked to sell to them. I think there has been
to them. I think there has been taken from eyes on both sides the
taken from eyes on both sides the biggest single issue has been
biggest single issue has been resolved. I don’t think the Premier
resolved. I don’t think the Premier League will... I thing the biggest
League will... I thing the biggest issue is the piracy issues have been
issue is the piracy issues have been resolved. $1,000,000,000 in damages
resolved. $1,000,000,000 in damages have been paid. I think we will hear
have been paid. I think we will hear a lot about separation but I think
a lot about separation but I think it is a fudge. This is effectively
it is a fudge. This is effectively through the public investment fund,
through the public investment fund, a takeover of a Premier league
a takeover of a Premier league football club by the Premier Saudi
football club by the Premier Saudi state. And what do you think of
state. And what do you think of that? It raises moral questions. We
that? It raises moral questions. We have to look at this for what it is.
have to look at this for what it is. It is sportswashing. It is about the
It is sportsmshing. It is about the Saudi regime
It is sportswashing. It is about the Saudi regime which has many, many
Saudi regime which has many, many critic, one of
Saudi regime which has many, many critics, one of the worst human
critic, one of the worst human right records
critics, one of the worst human right records on the planet, it has
right records on the planet, it has cmshed
right records on the planet, it has crushed political and social distend
cmshed political and social distend
crushed political and social distend — dissent within Saudi Arabia rather
- dissent within Saudi Arabia rather brutally and it
— dissent within Saudi Arabia rather brutally and it is about cleansing
brutally and it is about cleansing that regime past VS reputation
that regime past VS reputation through sport and through an English
through sport and through an English elite football club. However, what I
elite football club. However, what I would say on that is the kingdom of
would say on that is the kingdom of Saudi Arabia is a military ally of
Saudi Arabia is a military ally of the UK government and we sell arms
the UK government and we sell arms to Saudi Arabia. PIF, the vehicle
to Saudi Arabia. PIF, the vehida for this, they
to Saudi Arabia. PIF, the vehicle for this, they invest all over the
for this, they invest all over the UK economy. They are an — on every
UK economy. They are an - on every level, they have
UK economy. They are an — on every level, they have property in the UK,
level, they have property in the UK, business interest in the UK, they
business interest in the UK, they invest in a wide—ranging of UK
invest in a wide—ranging of UK businesses already, so I don’t think
businesses already, so I don’t think whilst that moral argument should
whilst that moral argument should not be forgotten, I don’t think you
not be forgotten, I don’t think you ran block
not be forgotten, I don’t think you can block this takeover with a moral
ran block this takeover with a moral question when
can block this takeover with a moral question when they are already
question when they are already investing in so many other
investing in so many other businesses was not as a reporter, a
businesses was not as a reporter, a journalist based in Newcastle, I
journalist based in Nemsﬂa, I cover
journalist based in Newcastle, I cover the whole of the north of
cover the whola of the north of England, I
cover the whole of the north of England, I will not forget those
England, I will not forget those issues, those human rights issues
issues, those human rights issues and what this is, a sportswashing
and what this is, a sportswashing project and we always have to be
project and we always have to be mindful of that but that does not
mindful of that but that does not mean it should not go ahead and it
mean it should not go ahead and it does not mean that Newcastle United
does not mean that Newcastle United supporters should be attacked or
supporters should be attacked or welcoming this investment in their
welcoming this investment in their city, in their
welcoming this investment in their city, in theirfootball
welcoming this investment in their city, in their football club,
welcoming this investment in their city, in theirfootball club, and
welcoming this investment in their city, in their football club, and as
city, in their football club, and as I say, the UK government are more
I say, the UK government are more than happy to deal with the Saudis
than happy to deal with the Saudis and the Queen gave a state banquet
and the Queen gave a state banquet to the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia
to the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia not so long ago. You are asking
not so long ago. You are asking football fans to oppose something
football fans to oppose something that the rest of the UK economy and
that the rest of the UK economy and business interests and the UK
business interests and the UK government have never opposed. Very
government have never opposed. Very brieﬂy, we
government have never opposed. Very briefly, we cannot talk about
briefly, we cannot talk about Newcastle United fans as though they
Nemsﬂa United fans as though they are
Newcastle United fans as though they are one homogenous mass, there will
are one homogenous mass, there will be many, many different opinions,
be many, many different opinions, but if it is goodbye to Mike Ashley,
but if it is goodbye to Mike Ashlay, will
but if it is goodbye to Mike Ashley, will the majority be pleased?
will the majority be pleased? Absolutely. And 93.5% of voters from
Absolutely. And 93.596 of voters from a
Absolutely. And 93.5% of voters from 3 Newcastle United supporters trust
a Newcastle United supporters trust survey this
3 Newcastle United supporters trust survey this week said they
a Newcastle United supporters trust survey this week said they wanted
survey this week said they wanted the takeover to happen. That is the
the takeover to happen. That is the vast, vast majority by don’t think
vast, vast majority by don’t think anyone will be sorry to see Mike
anyone will be sorry to see Mike Ashlay.
anyone will be sorry to see Mike Ashley. He has strangled the club
Ashley. He has strangled the club with a lack of ambition and this is
with a lack of ambition and this is a new dawn and a new era. Quite
a new dawn and a new era. Quite rightly, it is a new world for
rightly, it is a new world for Newcastle United and its supporters.
Nemsﬂa United and its supporters. Thank you
Newcastle United and its supporters. Thank you very much, Luke Edwards
Thank you very much, Luke Edwards from the Daily Telegraph newspaper.
You’re watching BBC News.
Andy Murray says he’s in the bad books at home
after losing his wedding ring whilst competing in Indian
Wells in California.
He described how it happened after he decided to leave his tennis
shoes under his car because they were so smelly
and posted an appeal on Instagram for help to get the ring back.
ﬂ
I decided when I got back to the hotel that the shoes needed some air
hotel that the shoes needed some air and I needed to dry them out a
and I needed to dry them out a little bit, so I have no balcony in
little bit, so I have no balcony in my room and I did not want to leave
my room and I did not want to leave them in the room because they would
them in the room because they would stink the room out, so I thought, I
stink the room out, so I thought, I would leave issues underneath the
would leave issues underneath the rar...
would leave issues underneath the far... To get
would leave issues underneath the car... To get some air to them and
far... To get some air to them and dry them out
car... To get some air to them and dry them out overnight. Anyway, when
dry them out overnight. Anyway, when I got back to the car in the
I got back to the far in the morning, the
I got back to the car in the morning, the shoes had gone, so my
morning, the shoes had gone, so my tennis shoes from the tournament
tennis shoes from the tournament had... I had to go to the local pro
had... I had to gotothe [oral pro shop
had... I had to go to the [oral pro shop and buy
had... I had to go to the local pro shop and buy different shoes to what
shop and buy different shoes to what I normally wear, a different brand
I normally wear, a different brand and everything. Which is not the end
and everything. which is not the end of the
and everything. Which is not the end of the world but not ideal. But
of the world but not ideal. But anyway, I was
of the world but not ideal. But anyway, Iwas preparing
of the world but not ideal. But anyway, I was preparing for my
anyway, I was preparing for my practice and my physio said to me,
practice and my physio said to me, whereas your wedding ring? And I was
whereas your wedding ring? And I was like... Or, no! And I basically tie
like... Or, no! And I basically tie my wedding ring to my tennis shoes
my wedding ring to my tennis shoes when I am playing because I cannot
when I am playing because I rannot play with it on
when I am playing because I cannot play with it on my hand. Yeah, my
play with it on my hand. Yeah, my wedding ring has been stolen as well
wedding ring has been stolen as well needless to say, I am in the bad
needlass to say, I am in the bad books at
needless to say, I am in the bad books at home. So
needless to say, I am in the bad books at home. Sol
needless to say, I am in the bad books at home. So I want to try and
books at home. So I want to try and find it. Yeah, if anyone can share
find it. Yeah, if anyone ran share this or may have
find it. Yeah, if anyone can share this or may have any clue where they
this or may have any clue where they may be, it would be very helpful, so
may be, it would be very helpful, so I ran try and get it
may be, it would be very helpful, so I can try and get it back and get to
I ran try and get it back and get to the
I can try and get it back and get to the bottom of it. It would be
the bottom of it. It would be much appreciated. You know what you need
appreciated. You know what you need to do. Time for a look at
to do. Time for a look at the weather forecast.
to do. Time for a look at the weatherforecast. If
to do. Time for a look at the weather forecast. If you like your
weather forecast. If you like your weather a bit warmer, that is
weather a bit warmer, that is certainly going to be the case in
certainly going to be the use in the next
certainly going to be the case in the next few days. We have got quite
the next few days. We have got quite a bit of cloud around but it is
a bit of cloud around but it is breaking in places. We have seen
breaking in places. We have seen some sunshine. A weather front is
some sunshine. A weather front is producing rain across Northern
producing rain across Northern Ireland and Scotland. These are the
Ireland and Scotland. These are the temperature values, 16 to about 20
temperature values, 16 to about 20 or 21 Celsius. Overnight, we
or 21 Celsius. Overnight, we continue with this rain across parts
continue with this rain across parts of Northern Ireland and Scotland. At
of Northern Ireland and Scotland. At times, drifting into north—west
times, drifting into north-west England and
times, drifting into north—west England and north—west Wales. Clear
England and north-west Walas. Clear skies
England and north—west Wales. Clear skies developing in northern
skies developing in northern Scotland and also southern England
Scotland and also southern England and this is where we will see some
and this is where we will see some fog developing. It is not going to
fog developing. It is not going to be a cold night, wherever you are.
be a cold night, wherever you are. Tomorrow, we start off with fog
Tomorrow, we start off with fog across central southern England,
across central southern England, slow to left. We should see more
slow to left. We should see more sunshine than today. But we still
sunshine than today. But we still have the weather front across
have the weather front across Northern Ireland and Scotland,
Northern Ireland and Scotland, producing some brisk winds and some
producing some brisk winds and some rain at times and still warm.
This is BBC News.
The headlines at 11am:
Energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year
because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
More countries are to be removed from the UK Government’s red list
later today, which requires travellers to stay in a quarantine
hotel when they get back to the UK.
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document
which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought
against him by Virginia Giuffre.
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas
that bans almost all abortions.
20 years on from the start of UK military operations in Afghanistan,
commemorations are held to remember the A57 British personnel
who died in the conflict.
A British woman who joined the Islamic State group with
her young children says politicians should open their minds
to allow them to return to the UK.
if:
He said to me, where is your wedding ring, and I
He said to me, where is your wedding ring, and lines
He said to me, where is your wedding ring, and I was like, oh, no.
Andy Murray has lost his wedding ring and he asks fans
to help him find it.
Householders are being warned their energy bills could rise
by another £400 early next year after gas prices soared
to record levels.
The rise would add further cost to households following the increase
in the energy price cap last week.
The Business Secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, will face industry
bosses later today as the sector deals with an unprecedented
spike in wholesale costs.
Kevin Peachey reports.
Just like the season’s weather, bill payers are being warned
the worst is yet to come.
A host of energy companies have collapsed in recent weeks.
Their customers moved to a new supplier are already having
to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
The price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises
in bills, but analysts say, next year, they will
still face a bill shock.
Under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year
if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
Analysts expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised
but as yet undecided cap starts in April.
Compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal
costing just over £850 a year.
We are competing with the rest of the world, the rest
of Europe for gas supplies.
Unfortunately, it is the reality.
Price comparison sites, which historically talk about how
much we can save you by switching.
The reality is that is not there at the moment,
and very few people for the whole of this year, really,
have been in a position where they would be able to save,
compared to last year.
Steel producers confirmed they halted production
at times of high demand, showing that industry,
as well as consumers, is feeling the impact
of rising costs.
Some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday
when Russia said it would increase gas supplies to Europe,
helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
But it hasn’t ended calls for the UK Government to step in.
The Business Secretary will be expected to address concerns
of the energy sector today.
But then also the worries of businesses and consumers
in the weeks to come.
Joining me now is Dale Vince.
He runs a green energy company that uses around 80 wind parks —
groups of turbines, to generate power.
Thank you very much for
Thank you very much forjoining us.
Thank you very much for joining us. (“an you tell us a
Thank you very much forjoining us. Can you tell us a bit about your
(“an you tell us a bit about your business
Can you tell us a bit about your business model and how exposed you
business model and how exposed you are to the wholesale cost of gas?
are to the wholesala cost of gas? Our
are to the wholesale cost of gas? Our business model is basically not
Our business model is basically not for dividend. We put our money from
for dividend. We put our money from energy bills into a building
energy bills into a building windmills and things like that. We
windmills and things like that. We make about 20% from renewable
make about 2096 from renewable energy,
make about 20% from renewable energy, which insulates us to a
energy, which insulates us to a degree, but we hedge going forward,
degree, but we hedge going forward, so we are 90% hedged for the next 12
so we are 9096 hedged for the next 12 months. If you
so we are 90% hedged for the next 12 months. If you promise to supply
months. If you promise to supply somebody something and then you
somebody something and then you don’t commit to buy that at the same
don’t commit to buy that at the same time, you leave yourself open to the
time, you leave yourself open to the gamble of the show to an energy
gamble of the show to an energy market, which is where we are now.
market, which is where we are now. We were just hearing about the cost
We were just hearing about the cost and the fact that for domestic
and the fact that for domestic users, a year ago, you could get a
users, a year ago, you could get a deal that would have cost £850 for
deal that would have cost £850 for your gas and electricity, and come
your gas and electricity, and come April it is likely to go up to about
April it is likely to go up to about £1600. What sort of price are your
£1600. What sort of price are your customers paying now? It is above
customers paying now? It is above the price rap,
customers paying now? It is above the price cap, actually. The problem
the price rap, actually. The problem with the price
the price cap, actually. The problem with the price cap is that it is not
with the price rap is that it is not capable... (“an
with the price cap is that it is not capable... Can you explain what that
capable... (“an you explain what that means?
capable... Can you explain what that means? The price cap is £1277. Are
means? The price rap is £1277. Are you saying you
means? The price cap is £1277. Are you saying you can charge more than
you saying you ran charge more than that? Yes.
you saying you can charge more than that? Yes. What is known as a
that? Yes. what is known as a derogation,
that? Yes. What is known as a derogation, from off gem. Customers
derogation, from off gem. Customers join us for a different reason other
join us for a different reason other than price. I think our average
than price. I think our average price might be £1400, I can’t be
price might be £1400, I can’t be certain, but the important thing is
certain, but the important thing is the price rap is
certain, but the important thing is the price cap is not capable of
the price rap is not capable of dealing with
the price cap is not capable of dealing with these incredible
dealing with these incredible spikes. To a degree, it looks
spikes. To a degree, it looks backwards, so it won’t be until
backwards, so it won’t be until April that the price cap moves to
April that the price rap moves to allow for
April that the price cap moves to allow for what has happened in the
allow for what has happened in the winter. That is too late for many
winter. That is too late for many energy companies, 12 have gone
energy companies, 12 have gone bankmpt
energy companies, 12 have gone bankrupt already. And the price cap
bankmpt already. And the price rap is illogical
bankrupt already. And the price cap is illogical because we have a price
is illogical because we have a price GP
is illogical because we have a price rap on the
is illogical because we have a price cap on the retail price but not the
cap on the retail price but not the wholesale price. Businesses normally
wholesale price. Businesses normally adjust and put up the retail price,
adjust and put up the retail price, energy companies are not allowed to.
energy companies are not allowed to. So you are concerned about energy
So you are concerned about energy companies going under because they
companies going under because they have to stick to the price cap. Are
have to stick to the price rap. Are you saying the
have to stick to the price cap. Are you saying the price cap should not
you saying the price rap should not be
you saying the price cap should not be there? Either the price cap
be there? Either the price rap should
be there? Either the price cap should not be there or we should
should not be there or we should have a wholesale price cap. Right
have a wholesala price rap. Right now, 5096
have a wholesale price cap. Right now, 50% of Britain’s gas comes from
now, 5096 of Britain’s gas comes from the North
now, 50% of Britain’s gas comes from the North Sea. The cost of
the North Sea. The cost of production has not gone up but they
production has not gone up but they are selling it to British consumers
are selling it to British consumers for five times the price they were
for five times the price they were in january, so
for five times the price they were inJanuary, so they are making
in january, so they are making billions
inJanuary, so they are making billions at the wholesale end of the
billions at the wholesale end of the energy market. But if there are too
energy market. But if there are too many companies in play and they have
many companies in play and they have not done what you said you did to
not done what you said you did to protect yourself, why should they be
protect yourself, why should they be protected from going under at the
protected from going under at the expense of consumers, who have
expense of consumers, who have obviously been told you can’t shop
obviously been told you can’t shop around, you can get a cheap deal,
around, you ran get a cheap deal, life is
around, you can get a cheap deal, life is expensive? They are
life is expensive? They are architects of their own demise, I
architects of their own demise, I accept that, but I think the
accept that, but I think the government have a hand in this as
government have a hand in this as well by using a price cap. It does
well by using a price rap. It does not exist
well by using a price cap. It does not exist anywhere else. We spent
not exist anywhere else. We spent five times as much on food than we
five times as much on food than we do in energy, and more people are in
do in energy, and more peopla are in food
do in energy, and more people are in food poverty than energy poverty,
food poverty than energy poverty, and we don’t have a price cap on
and we don’t have a price rap on food. We just
and we don’t have a price cap on food. Wejust need
and we don’t have a price cap on food. We just need to sort it out
food. We just need to sort it out because it is illogical to try to
because it is illogical to try to hold prices down when world events
hold prices down when world events are driving them up. Stay with us
are driving them up. Stay with us for a moment because the Business
for a moment because the Business Secretary has been speaking about
Secretary has been speaking about this so I just want to listen and
this so I just want to listen and get your thoughts on it after we
get your thoughts on it after we hear what he has been saying. He was
hear what he has been saying. He was talking about protecting customers
talking about protecting customers with that price cap.
with that price rap. The
with that price cap. The recent issues that we have with
The recent issues that we have with the volatility of the gas price,
the volatility of the gas price, incredible spikes, and then falling
incredible spikes, and then falling back, great uncertainty in the
back, great uncertainty in the market, I think that shows exactly
market, I think that shows exactly why we need vigorously to pursue our
why we need vigorously to pursue our climate goals.
climate goals. Could you hear from
climate goals. Could you hearfrom Kwasi
climate goals. Could you hear from Kwasi Kwarteng
Could you hear from Kwasi Kwarteng then?
Could you hearfrom Kwasi Kwarteng then? What are your thoughts? I
then? what are your thoughts? I think he
then? What are your thoughts? I think he is absolutely right that we
think he is absolutely right that we need to pursue what he calls climate
need to pursue what he falls climate goals. From my
need to pursue what he calls climate goals. From my perspective, that
goals. From my perspective, that means building enough renewable
means building enough renewable energy generators in our country so
energy generators in our country so that we make all the energy we need
that we make all the energy we need from renewable sources and break
from renewable sources and break away from these global markets. But
away from these global markets. But just today we had from industry on
just today we had from industry on BBC Radio Scotland, being told by
BBC Radio Scotland, being told by government that when they need to
government that when they need to dose
government that when they need to close their factories because they
close their factories because they can’t afford the gas, government
can’t afford the gas, government advice to those businesses is to put
advice to those businesses is to put their prices up. It is incoherent to
their prices up. It is incoherent to treat different sectors like this.
treat different sectors like this. He is right, but that is a long—term
He is right, but that is a long-term solution. Right
He is right, but that is a long—term solution. Right now, companies are
solution. Right now, companies are being made bankrupt by an illogical
being made bankmpt by an illogical price rap.
being made bankrupt by an illogical price cap. When you talk about
price rap. when you talk about breaking
price cap. When you talk about breaking away from global markets,
breaking away from global markets, Vladimir Putin intervened yesterday,
Vladimir Putin intervened yesterday, saying Taps would be turned on to
saying Taps would be turned on to Europe, and a huge spike of a 37%
Europe, and a huge spike of a 3796 increase
Europe, and a huge spike of a 37% increase in the price of wholesale
increase in the price of wholesale out in 24
increase in the price of wholesale out in 2A hours certainly dropped,
out in 24 hours certainly dropped, what
out in 2A hours certainly dropped, what does that say about how things
what does that say about how things are set? These international markets
are set? These international markets are absolutely manipulated by energy
are absolutely manipulated by energy traders as well as energy producers.
traders as well as energy producers. They are rigged in terms of supply
They are rigged in terms of supply and demand. What President Putin
and demand. what President Putin said that
and demand. What President Putin said that has not been too widely
said that has not been too widely supported is, a big part of Europe
supported is, a big part of Europe is my problem is that Europe moved
is my problem is that Europe moved away from long—term gas contracts,
away from long-term gas contracts, which is
away from long—term gas contracts, which is at the same as buying
which is at the same as buying forwards, instead Europe opted for a
forwards, instead Europe opted for a spot market, we have a daily price,
spot market, we have a daily price, and these huge problems. He is quite
and these huge problems. He is quite right. Thank you very much for
right. Thank you very much for joining us. Do let us know your
joining us. Do let us know your thoughts, how you are feeling about
thoughts, how you are feeling about the cost of your energy bills. You
the cost of your energy bills. You ran get in touch
the cost of your energy bills. You can get in touch with me directly on
ran get in touch with me directly on Twitter.
Twitter. The Institute for Fiscal Studies
The Institute for Fiscal Studies 5575
The Institute for Fiscal Studies says council tax in England may have
says council tax in England may have to rise by as much as 5% a year for
to rise by as much as 596 a year for the next
to rise by as much as 5% a year for the next three years to keep
the next three years to keep services running and you pay for
services mnning and you pay for reforms
services running and you pay for reforms to social care. The
reforms to social rare. The government
reforms to social care. The government says it has allocated
government says it has allocated more than £12 billion directly to
more than £12 billion directly to councils since the start of the
councils since the start of the pandemic and is taking historic
pandemic and is taking historic action to fix the social care
action to fix the social care crisis.
Ajudge in the US has given permission for Prince Andrew’s legal
team to get access to a confidential settlement agreement
which they believe will negate a civil claim
being pursued against him.
The claim was based on allegations of sexual assault made
by Virginia Giuffre.
Prince Andrew has always denied those allegations.
Our correspondent Nada Tawfik is in New York with the latest.
Now with the judge’s sign—off, Prince Andrew’s legal team will very
soon get their hands on this confidential document
that they believe will end the civil lawsuit against him.
In a previous court hearing, the Prince’s lawyer said that
a settlement agreement reached between Virginia Giuffre and the sex
offenderJeffrey Epstein essentially absolved anyone associated
with Epstein from any and all potential liability.
Now, Virginia Giuffre and her legal team, and Epstein’s estate,
have all consented to handing over that document and now
they have thejudge’s sign—off to do that.
But her lawyer David Boies has said that he believes this
settlement is irrelevant to Prince Andrew’s case.
He says that essentially they have the right to review it
and to make whatever arguments they want based on it,
but he doesn’t believe that their characterisation is accurate.
There will be arguments in this case, another
hearing, early next month.
The Biden Administration has welcomed a judge’s decision to block
a near total ban on abortion in the US state of Texas.
The White House described it as an important step
towards restoring constitutional rights for Texan women.
The court issued a temporary injunction to suspend
the controversial law which prohibits abortions
after the sixth week of pregnancy.
Thejudge described it as "An offensive deprivation
of an important right."
The state authorities have lodged an appeal.
In a landmark decision last month, the Conservative majority on the US
Supreme Court agreed to let the restrictions stand,
resulting in protests right around the United States.
At dawn today, wreaths were [aid at the Bastion Memorial
in Staffordshire and at the Iraq and Afghanistan Memorial
in central London.
A57 British personnel were killed during the conflict.
UK troops left Afghanistan at the end of August, bringing
an end to the two decade war.
Jonathan Beale has been speaking to
jonathan Beale has been speaking to some of
Jonathan Beale has been speaking to some of the troops involved in the
some of the troops involved in the conﬂict.
A57 British military personnel lost their lives in Afghanistan.
One of them was Claire and Brian Hill’s only son, James.
It never leaves us.
We don’t have a son anymore, we don’t have any other children.
There is an emptiness, there’s a hole that nothing can fill.
Remembrance Day for most people is November the 11th, but,
for the likes of us, Remembrance Day is every day.
It’s nearly 12 years to the day that James Hill was killed
by an improvised explosive device in Helmand.
He was just 23 and about to get married.
His parents are proud of his service and his sacrifice,
though the recent return of Afghanistan to Taliban control
has been hard for them to bear.
If we were to say now, yes, James’s life was wasted,
then that would hurt us all over again, because we have to believe
that what he did made a difference and what they all did,
and that they gave so much, notjust the ones who died,
but the ones who carry on with injuries.
One hand says, what the heck did we go there for?
The other hand says, we’ve stopped any terrorist
atrocities on our streets.
And, as Claire said, another 9/11.
So it’s...
It’s very, very difficult.
And when you balance that, do you think the sacrifice that
you’ve made of your only son has been worth it?
No.
No.
Nothing is worth it.
That’s not worth anything.
I am moving with a piece of equipment over a patch of ground
that had been walked on by 30 or A0 people already and then,
massive explosion.
And I had stepped on a pressure plate IED, it functioned and,
thankfully, it was only me that got hurt but it was quite severe,
it took both legs above the knee.
Luke Sinnott is one of more than 300 British troops who lost
limbs in Afghanistan.
But he has battled through his severe injuries
with the help of sport.
He was due to take part in the Tokyo Paralympics this summer,
but, because of an injury, he had to stay home and witness
the collapse of the country in which he once fought.
And the desperate scenes of those trying to leave.
Getting injured, not going to Tokyo and then
the Afghanistan withdrawal, you know, it’s been a mentally rough
period for the summer.
From my point of view, we were on the ground,
we were moving IEDs and giving people some safety, some remnants
of safety in the country and kids the ability to go to school,
so I will never regret that, I can hold my head high
on what we did out there.
If I could make a deal tomorrow and get my legs back, I would.
My view of Afghanistan is a very clear one to me
and that is the intent of what we were trying
to do was always right.
The concept was flawed.
Too little, too late and we quit way too soon.
And that is the great tragedy of Afghanistan.
Stuart Tootal led the first British troops into Helmand in 2006.
He commanded the 3rd Battalion, the Parachute Regiment,
who suffered the first serious casualties of the war,
with dozens injured and 15 killed.
What was then supposed to have been a simple peace
support operation turned into a bloody
counterinsurgency conflict.
If you wanted to pick the positives out, you can turn round and say,
well, we gave the Afghans 20 years of an opportunity of how
life might be different.
That’s true.
The trouble is, that opportunity never realised itself fully
because the Taliban are now back in control, but I don’t think we can
be very proud of the outcome.
We can be proud of what we tried to do as soldiers, but in terms
of those responsible for the strategic decisions,
I don’t think there’s a great deal to crow about in terms
of there being a particular...
There is no victory here.
You know, we did not win that conflict.
There was little fanfare when the last British troops left
Afghanistan earlier this year.
This, the low—key ceremony in Kabul before the chaotic exit.
Wars without victory are often forgotten,
but the hopes of all those who served there and who lost loved
ones is that their sacrifice will never be forgotten.
Jonathan Beale, BBC News.
Jonathan Beale, BBC News.
Energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year because
hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in wholesale
of another big rise in wholesale prices.
prices. Prince Andrew is given access to a
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document which his lawyers
sealed document which his lawyers believe could help to end the sexual
believe could help to end the sexual abuse case brought against him by
abuse rase brought against him by Virginia
abuse case brought against him by Virginia Giuffre.
Virginia Giuffre. A federal
Virginia Giuffre. A federaljudge in the United States
A federal judge in the United States has
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas that
has suspended a law in Texas that bans almost all abortions.
1m
Now back to the energy prices. Kwasi Kwarteng has sought to reassure
Kwarteng has sought to reassure customers that they will not run out
customers that they will not mn out of gas and
customers that they will not run out of gas and energy supplies this
of gas and energy supplies this winter. Record wholesale energy
winter. Record wholesale energy prices have led to some supply
prices have lad to some supply struggling,
prices have led to some supply struggling, with nine collapsing
struggling, with nine collapsing last month alone. Speaking at an
last month alone. Speaking at an energy industry conference, Kwasi
energy industry conference, Kwasi Kwarteng warned that more suppliers
Kwarteng warned that more suppliers could exit the market, but he
could exit the market, but he insisted talks were continuing to
insisted talks were continuing to minimise disruption. Let’s go to
minimise disruption. Let’s go to Labour’s Shadow Business Secretary,
Labour’s Shadow Business Secretary, Ed Miliband. What would you do right
Ed Miliband. what would you do right now if you
Ed Miliband. What would you do right now if you were in charge? The first
now if you were in charge? The first thing I would do, because families
thing I would do, because families are feeling the terrible strain as
are feeling the terrible strain as they see the rising energy prices
they see the rising energy prices and the prospect of a further rise,
and the prospect of a further rise, is cancelled the cut in Universal
is cancelled the cut in Universal Credit, because that is going to
Credit, because that is going to take £1000 of millions of families
take £1000 of millions offamilies in our country
take £1000 of millions of families in our country and plunge people
in our country and plunge peopla into
in our country and plunge people into deeper and deeper fuel poverty,
into deeper and deeper fuel poverty, and it beggars belief to me in the
and it beggars belief to me in the context of rising energy prices,
context of rising energy prices, rising prices generally, tax rises
rising prices generally, tax rises due to come in with national
due to come in with national insurance, that the government is
insurance, that the government is ploughing ahead with this cut. Sorry
ploughing ahead with this cut. Sorry to intermpt.
ploughing ahead with this cut. Sorry to interrupt. You would let the
to intermpt. You would let the energy
to interrupt. You would let the energy situation continue and focus
energy situation continue and focus on Universal Credit? The first thing
on Universal Credit? The first thing you would do is tackle the cost of
you would do is tackla the cost of living crisis.
you would do is tackle the cost of living crisis. The second thing, why
living crisis. The second thing, why are we in this position? Because we
are we in this position? Because we have not built a resilient energy
have not built a resilient energy system. We allowed gas storage to
system. We allowed gas storage to dose,
system. We allowed gas storage to close, we haven’t moved fast enough
close, we haven’t moved fast enough on renewables, nuclear, and on
on renewablas, nuclear, and on energy
on renewables, nuclear, and on energy efficiency. If we were Rulli
energy efficiency. If we were Rulli moving on energy efficiency,
moving on energy efficiency, insulating homes, we could cut gas
insulating homes, we could cut gas demand, cut bills and so the answer
demand, cut bills and so the answer is to move on all of those fronts.
is to move on all of those fronts. Yes, we have got to do all we can to
Yes, we have goth do allwe ran to stabilise
Yes, we have got to do all we can to stabilise supplies, but the real
stabilise supplies, but the real answer is to move forward on
answer is to move forward on renewables, move forward on nuclear,
renewablas, move forward on nuclear, move
renewables, move forward on nuclear, move forward on energy efficiency,
move forward on energy efficiency, and above all to have a plan, and it
and above all to have a plan, and it is the government’s failure to have
is the government’s failure to have a plan that has left our country so
a plan that has left our country so dangerously exposed. And while
dangerously exposed. And while people are facing those increased
people are facing those increased costs and we look ahead to April
costs and we look ahead to April when potentially energy bills could
when potentially energy bills could go
when potentially energy bills could 9° “P
when potentially energy bills could go up to £1660, do you agree with
go up to £1660, do you agree with that sort of level? We have to keep
that sort of level? We have to keep the rap as low
that sort of level? We have to keep the cap as low as possible. As some
the rap as low as possible. As some of your viewers
the cap as low as possible. As some of your viewers remember, I proposed
of your viewers remember, I proposed that rap some
of your viewers remember, I proposed that cap some years ago, I think it
that rap some years ago, I think it is good that we
that cap some years ago, I think it is good that we have a cap in place,
is good that we have a rap in place, but it is
is good that we have a cap in place, but it is obviously going up. The
but it is obviously going up. The answer then is how can we do all we
answer then is how ran we do all we ran to help
answer then is how can we do all we can to help families? That is why I
can to help families? That is why I mentioned Universal Credit. We
mentioned Universal Credit. We should look at some of the discounts
should look at some of the discounts availabla,
should look at some of the discounts available, the Warm Homes, which the
available, the Warm Homes, which the government could definitely do more
government could definitely do more on, and we should look at whether
on, and we should look at whether the businesses need help, but as
the businesses need help, but as people see energy bills rising by
peopla see energy bills rising by £100,
people see energy bills rising by £100, they are going to be facing
£100, they are going to be facing this double whammy, many people, of
this double whammy, many peopla, of this
this double whammy, many people, of this Universal Credit cat, which is
this Universal Credit rat, which is another
this Universal Credit cat, which is another £1000 taken out of their
another £1000 taken out of their pockets, and that is a situation
pockets, and that is a situation that is going to be unbearable for
that is going to be unbearable for so many families. That is why I come
so many families. That is why I come back to this point, Universal Credit
back to this point, Universal Credit is not the only answer, but the
is not the only answer, but the Prime Minister gave a speech
Prime Minister gave a speech yesterday and he did not mention the
yesterday and he did not mention the cost of living crisis and he did not
cost of living crisis and he did not mention this decision they are
mention this decision they are making. And the government has been
making. And the government has been clear that the... That cut is not
clear that the... That cut is not going to happen. We are not giving
going to happen. We are not giving “P
going to happen. We are not giving up on this. There is a budget in
up on this. There is a budget in three weeks’ time. The fact is, if
three weeks“ time. The fact is, if you want a
three weeks’ time. The fact is, if you want a properly targeted
you want a property targeted solution,
you want a properly targeted solution, this is the best targeted
solution, this is the best targeted solution, that you have also got a
solution, that you have also got a look at what you can do in relation
look at what you ran do in relation to energy bills
look at what you can do in relation to energy bills and some of the
to energy bills and some of the discounts available to poorer
discounts available to poorer households, but targeting people
households, but targeting peopla through
households, but targeting people through the social system is the
through the social system is the best answer, as well as getting on
best answer, as well as getting on with energy efficiency. If we
with energy efficiency. If we actually did proper energy
actually did proper energy efficiency, you could cut people’s
efficiency, you could cut people’s gas bills by around 25%, independent
gas bills by around 25%, independent estimates say, and the fact we have
estimates say, and the fact we have failed on energy efficiency, the
failed on energy efficiency, the government has cut the programmes
government has cut the programmes that were designed to help people,
that were designed to help people, is another reason why families are
is another reason why families are facing problems. This is definitely
facing problams. This is definitely a crisis
facing problems. This is definitely a crisis made in Downing Street. I
a crisis made in Downing Street. I spoke a short while ago to someone
spoke a short whila ago to someone who runs a
spoke a short while ago to someone who runs a green energy company and
who mns a green energy company and his view is
who runs a green energy company and his view is that they either it
his view is that they either it needs to be a cap on wholesale
needs to be a rap on wholesale prices, and it
needs to be a cap on wholesale prices, and it does not make sense
prices, and it does not make sense to have a rap on
prices, and it does not make sense to have a cap on the retail prices.
to have a rap on the retail prices. In other
to have a cap on the retail prices. In other words, he thinks that cap
In other words, he thinks that rap should just go
In other words, he thinks that cap should just go away. He points out
should just go away. He points out that households spend five times
that households spend five times more on food than on energy and
more on food than on energy and there is no price cap on food. What
there is no price rap on food. what do you say to
there is no price cap on food. What do you say to that? The difference
do you say to that? The difference is this, the food market has some
is this, the food market has some problams, but
is this, the food market has some problems, but by and large it seems
problems, but by and large it seems a competitive market. The energy
a competitive market. The energy market, the reason why I argued for
market, the reason why I argued for the price rap
market, the reason why I argued for the price cap some years ago, and
the price rap some years ago, and the
the price cap some years ago, and the government eventually agreed, is
the government eventually agreed, is it is a market that has not been
it is a market that has not been working for families. The situation
working for families. The situation that was in place was that we saw
that was in place was that we saw energy generators and suppliers
energy generators and suppliers making huge profits and not actually
making huge profits and not actually responding to falls in wholesale
responding to falls in wholesala prices by
responding to falls in wholesale prices by passing them on to
prices by passing them on to customers, so that is why the cap
customers, so that is why the rap was
customers, so that is why the cap was eventually, by government, after
was eventually, by government, after seven years of me trying to persuade
seven years of me trying to persuade them, brought in, and that is why it
them, brought in, and that is why it has to be kept in place. Goodness
has to be kept in place. Goodness knows where we would be if the cap
knows where we would be if the rap was not in
knows where we would be if the cap was not in place. On that point
was not in place. On that point about competition, if more energy
about competition, if more energy suppliers go out of business, the
suppliers go out of business, the competition will be even more
competition will be even more produced. Do you think those
produced. Do you think those companies should be protected from
companies should be protected from going out of business in the
going out of business in the interest of competition? I think it
interest of competition? I think it is quite dangerous to say that if a
is quite dangerous to say that if a company ran’t
is quite dangerous to say that if a company can’t find its way forward,
company can’t find its way forward, that you prop up a failing company
that you prop up a failing company because they may be all sorts of
because they may be all sorts of reasons why the company is failing.
reasons why the company is failing. I do agree there is a problem about
I do agree there is a problem about the concentration in the market and
the concentration in the market and there are different mechanisms of
there are different mechanisms of the government can look at.
the government can look at. So—called supplier of last resort
So-ralled supplier of last resort but also
So—called supplier of last resort but also having an administration
but also having an administration function, where you keep a holding
function, where you keep a holding m"WWW-
function, where you keep a holding co"WHY. ‘rf
function, where you keep a holding company, if you like, and all of
company, if you like, and all of those options have got to be on the
those options have got to be on the table. What we can’t do is end up
tabla. what we can’t do is end up subsidising the
table. What we can’t do is end up subsidising the biggest energy
subsidising the biggest energy companies or
subsidising the biggest energy companies orjust concentrate their
companies or just concentrate their market
companies orjust concentrate their market share. All those options have
market share. All those options have got to be on the table but the
got to be on the table but the biggest answer is to go further and
biggest answer is to go further and faster on the crucial zero carbon
faster on the crucial zero carbon renewables and nuclear, the whole
renewablas and nuclear, the whola agenda at
renewables and nuclear, the whole agenda at the government has failed
agenda at the government has failed on. Thank you for
agenda at the government has failed on. Thank you forjoining us, Ed
on. Thank you for joining us, Ed Miliband.
Miliband. More companies are expected to be
More companies are expected to be removed from the government’s
removed from the government’s medallist later today. Let’s talk to
medallist later today. Let’s talk to a spokesperson for the body that
a spokesperson for the body that represents 90% of package tours sold
represents 9096 of package tours sold in the
represents 90% of package tours sold in the UK and 80% of travel agents.
in the UK and 8096 of travel agents. The red
in the UK and 80% of travel agents. The red list is expected to go down
The red list is expected to go down to around 12 countries. What
to around 12 countries. What difference will that make? It is
difference will that make? It is going to make a massive difference.
going to make a massive difference. There will be a lot of destinations
There will be a lot of destinations and people who have not seen friends
and people who have not seen friends and family for a long time. We wait
and family for a long time. We wait with bated breath to see who is
with bated breath to see who is coming off that red list, and it
coming off that red list, and it could be Latin America, large parts
could be Latin America, large parts of Africa, and it has caused
of Africa, and it has caused financial difficulties for
financial difficulties for developing countries, which rely on
developing countries, which rely on tourism from the UK. It is
tourism from the UK. It is interesting times we are living in
interesting times we are living in but it is looking positive to see
but it is looking positive to see countries coming off that list. We
countries coming off that list. We are part of an organisation
are part of an organisation involving a lot of trade bodies and
involving a lot of trade bodies and we understand we are still in a
we understand we are still in a pandemic, there is a need for a red
pandemic, there is a need for a red list, but we believe it should be
list, but we believe it should be preserved for destinations where
preserved for destinations where Covid concerns are in existence
Covid concerns are in existence because at the moment the list is
because at the moment the list is too long. You mentioned the impact
too long. You mentioned the impact of the lack of tourism on countries
of the lack of tourism on countries who have been constrained. What
who have been constrained. what about
who have been constrained. What about the shape of the UK travel
about the shape of the UK travel industry right now? How are things
industry right now? How are things looking? They are getting better but
looking? They are getting better but we have been through almost two
we have been through almost two years of severely restricted
years of severely restricted business. At one stage, it was
business. At one stage, it was illegal to take a foreign holiday
illegal to take a foreign holiday and that has not been the case since
and that has not been the use since the beginning
and that has not been the case since the beginning of
and that has not been the case since the beginning ofJuly, but bookings
the beginning of july, but bookings are still
the beginning ofJuly, but bookings are still substantially down. Things
are still substantially down. Things like the reduction of the red list
like the reduction of the red list will be very helpful, especially for
will be very helpful, especially for specialist tour operators. One of my
specialist tour operators. One of my friends who represents the Latin
friends who represents the Latin American trade association, they are
American trade association, they are desperate to have people travel to
desperate to have people travel to those areas once more. Another thing
those areas once more. Another thing that is very important, thinking of
that is very important, thinking of families, they have said to us
families, they have said to us repeatedly, one of the things that
repeatedly, one of the things that stops them taking holidays is the
stops them taking holidays is the cost of PCR test for themselves and
cost of PCR test for themselves and their children. We saw a great
their children. We saw a great movement on the Ath of October where
movement on the 4th of October where you don’t have to
movement on the Ath of October where you don’t have to do a predeparture
you don’t have to do a predeparture test, and that is really helpful,
test, and that is really helpful, but you still have to do a very
but you still have to do a very expensive PCR test on day two of
expensive PCR test on day two of returning to the UK. Grant Shapps
returning to the UK. Grant Shapps said he will be looking at reducing
said he will be looking at reducing that, saying you only have to take
that, saying you only have to take the cheaper lateral flow test. We
the cheaper lateral ﬂow test. We need an
the cheaper lateral flow test. We need an announcement on that soon
need an announcement on that soon because we are not too far away from
because we are not too far away from half turn and I know a lot of
half turn and I know a lot of parents will be keener on going away
parents will be keener on going away if they feel the cost will be
if they feel the cost will be considerably lower. What is the
considerably lower. what is the level of
considerably lower. What is the level of bookings in the run—up to
level of bookings in the mn-up to the holiday?
level of bookings in the run—up to the holiday? How would you rate
the holiday? How would you rate confidence currently? It varies from
confidence currently? It varies from who you talk to. Some members say
who you talk to. Some members say they are doing really well, that
they are doing really well, that this business is really low. We are
this business is really low. We are talking about a fraction of what we
talking about a fraction of what we see in a normal year. I have
talking about a fraction of what we see in a normal year. I havejust
see in a normalyear. I have just come back
see in a normal year. I havejust come back from Greece and it was an
come back from Greece and it was an amazing experience because one of
amazing experience because one of the advantages of travelling is a
the advantages of travelling is a bizarre town, so you are not seeing
bizarre town, so you are not seeing the crowds, and the weather is still
the crowds, and the weather is still very good. So if you have not been
very good. So if you have not been able to take a holiday, and I think
able to take a holiday, and I think a lot of families were priced out of
a lot of families were priced out of taking a holiday, we saw the cost of
taking a holiday, we saw the cost of domestic breaks went through the
domestic breaks went through the roof, so particularly for half term,
roof, so particularty for half term, for many
roof, so particularly for half term, for many families, this might be
for many families, this might be their last opportunity to get a good
their last opportunity to get a good value break this year, so let’s see
value break this year, so let’s see some movement from the government
some movement from the government about saying, yes, you don’t need
about saying, yes, you don’t need all your children to take a PCR test
all your children to take a PCR test when you get back. I am not sure
when you get back. I am not sure what time we will get the
what time we will get the announcement or whether we will get
announcement or whether we will get the news about the day two test, but
the news about the day two test, but as soon as there is any news, we
as soon as there is any news, we will bring it to you. Now it is time
will bring it to you. Now it is time for a look at the weather.
The weather is going to be a bit warmer over the next few days. Today
warmer over the next few days. Today we have got quite a bit of cloud
we have got quite a bit of cloud around but it is breaking in places.
around but it is breaking in places. The weather fronts producing
around but it is breaking in places. The weatherfronts producing rain in
The weather fronts producing rain in Scotland
The weatherfronts producing rain in Scotland and Northern Ireland,
Scotland and Northern Ireland, accompanied by some brisk winds.
accompanied by some brisk winds. Temperatures between 16 and 21
Temperatures between 16 and 21 degrees. As we head through the
degrees. As we head through the evening and overnight, we continue
evening and overnight, we continue with this rain across Northern
with this rain across Northern Ireland and Scotland. That will
Ireland and Scotland. That will drift into north—west England and
drift into north—west England and north—west Wales, but they will be
north-west Walas, but they will be clear
north—west Wales, but they will be clear skies in northern Scotland and
clear skies in northern Scotland and southern England. This is where we
southern England. This is where we will see some fog develop. But it is
will see some fog develop. But it is not going to be a cold night.
not going to be a cold night. Tomorrow we start off with that fog
Tomorrow we start off with that fog across central and southern England.
across central and southern England. It will lift into low cloud and we
It will lift into low cloud and we should see some more sunshine today.
should see some more sunshine today. But we still have the weather front
But we still have the weather front across Northern Ireland and Scotland
across Northern Ireland and Scotland producing brisk winds and some rain
producing brisk winds and some rain at times and still warm.
Hello, this is BBC News.
ﬂ
lam
IamJoanna
I am Joanna Gosling.
I amJoanna Gosling. Here are
I am Joanna Gosling. Here are the
I am joanna Gosling. Here are the headlights...
Energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year
because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
More countries are to be removed from the red list today. Which
from the red list today. which requires
from the red list today. Which requires travellers to stay in a
requires travellers to stay in a quarantine hotel when they get back
quarantine hotel when they get back to the UK.
quarantine hotel when they get back to the UK.
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document
which his lawyers believe could help to end the sexual abuse
case brought against him by Virginia Giuffre.
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas that
bans almost all abortions.
v1.1
20 years on from the start of the UK military operations in Afghanistan,
military operations in Afghanistan, commemorations are held to remember
commemorations are held to remember the 4.57
commemorations are held to remember the A57 British personnel who died
the 457 British personnel who died in the
the A57 British personnel who died in the conflict. Our British woman
in the conﬂict. Our British woman who joined the
in the conflict. Our British woman whojoined the Islamic
in the conflict. Our British woman who joined the Islamic State group
who joined the Islamic State group with her young children says
with her young children says politicians should open their minds
politicians should open their minds to allow people to return to the
to allow peopla to return to the United
to allow people to return to the United Kingdom.
Sport and for a full round up, from the BBC Sport center,
here’s Jane Dougall.
Good morning.
Amnesty International has urged the Premier League is to change its
Premier League is to change its orders and directors test to address
orders and directors test to address human rights issues.
A consortium providing most of the money for the £300 million deal
money for the £300 million deal would be in control of Newcastle not
would be in control of Nemsﬂa not the
would be in control of Newcastle not the Saudi state. They have urged the
the Saudi state. They have urged the Saudi state not to...
As for the fans, they’re just happy to see the deal edging
closer to completion.
Football fa ns
Football fans don’t get a choice in who buys their football club.
Football fans don’t get a choice in who buys theirfootball club. We
who buys their football club. We don’t
who buys theirfootball club. We don’t have a say, it has dragged on
don’t have a say, it has dragged on for 18 months. Fans are
don’t have a say, it has dragged on for 18 months. Fans arejust really,
for 18 months. Fans arejust really, really excited about the prospect of
really excited about the prospect of having a football club to believe in
having a football club to believe in again. Newcastle fans are delighted
again. Newcasﬂa fans are delighted that
again. Newcastle fans are delighted that the disastrous 1A year reign of
that the disastrous 14 year reign of the previous
that the disastrous 1A year reign of the previous owner is nearly over.
the previous owner is nearty over. The majority of
the previous owner is nearly over. The majority of our fan base are
The majority of our fan base are happy at this. There is more on that
happy at this. There is more on that developing story on the BBC Sport
developing story on the BBC Sport website.
The chief executive of the Professional Footballers
Association, Maheta Molango says all footballers have been given
education and guidance on the importance of getting
the Coronavirus vaccine.
It follows reports that a low percentage of players
have had the jab, but Molango insists most of those
involved understand the benefits of getting the vaccine.
ﬂ
I think the message is very clear.
I think the message is very dear. And the
I think the message is very clear. And the message is that we are
And the message is that we are supportive of the vaccination
supportive of the vaccination roll—out. We understand that we all
roll-out. We understand that we all want to get
roll—out. We understand that we all want to get back to some sort of
want to get back to some sort of normality. We understand that this
normality. We understand that this is the right way forward. We also
is the right way forward. We also believe that taking the vaccine or
believe that taking the vaccine or not is a personal choice. We need to
not is a personal choice. We need to make sure that the players are able
make sure that the players are able to make an educated decision based
to make an educated decision based on science. The national woman’s
on science. The national woman’s football league resumed last night.
It the first time matches have been played since
the dismissal of the head coach, of Carolina Courage,
Paul Riley, amid allegations of sexual misconduct.
They linked arms together. He denies allegations.
England all—rounder Ben Stokes is unlikely to play in the Ashes
against Australia this winter, after a second operation
on his injured left index finger Stokes took an indefinite break
from cricket inJuly, to protect his mental health
and rest his finger which he first injured in April.
This second operation was to remove two screws and scar tissue.
The Ashes are due to begin in December, with the ECB expected
to make an announcent on whether the tour
WILL go ahead tomorrow.
The build up to the big fight in Las Vegas on Saturday has got angry.
The WBC Heavyweight Champion Tyson Fury
against the American Deontay Wilder.
The pairfaced off ahead of Saturday’s bout, in what will be
the third fight between the two, with the first a draw
and Fury winning the second.
Wilder has suggested that Fury cheated his way to victory,
in that last fight, something that has angered the defending champion.
ﬂ
I don’t want to hurt Deontay Wilder,
I don’t want to hurt Deontay wilder, I just want to
I don’t want to hurt Deontay Wilder, I just want to beat him
I don’t want to hurt Deontay Wilder, Ijust want to beat him in a fight
Ijust want to beat him in a fight and he knows what he’s saying is
and he knows what he’s saying is lies. In deep down in his soul he
lies. In deep down in his soul he knows that he lost and he will lose
knows that he lost and he will lose again and he lost the first time and
again and he lost the first time and the second time and he’s going to
the second time and he’s going to lose the third time. Guess what you
lose the third time. Guess what you will be back working in that fast
will be back working in that fast food chain you were working
food chain you were working at eartier
food chain you were working at earlier in
food chain you were working at eartier in your
food chain you were working at earlier in your career.
Now Andy Murray is in a spot of bother this morning.
Out in Indian Wells, in California, where he is competing.
Andy Murray’s ring was tied to his tennis shoes which were left
under his car to air and they then went missing he’s taken to social
media to explain his predicament and ask for help.
MY
My physio said to me where is your wedding ring? And I was like... Oh,
wedding ring? And Iwas like... Oh, no. And I
wedding ring? And I was like... Oh, no. And I basically tied my wedding
no. And I basically tied my wedding ring to my tennis shoes when I’m
ring to my tennis shoes when I’m playing because I can’t play with it
playing because I can’t play with it on my hand. Yeah, my wedding ring
on my hand. Yeah, my wedding ring has been stolen as well. Needless to
has been stolen as well. Needless to say, I’m in the bad books at home.
say, I’m in the bad books at home. So I want to try and find it. If...
So I want to try and find it. If... Yet, if anyone could share this or
Yet, if anyone could share this or it may have any clue as to where it
it may have any clue as to where it may be, it would be very helpful. 50
may be, it would be very helpful. So I ran try and get it
may be, it would be very helpful. 50 I can try and get it back and get
I ran try and get it back and get to the
I can try and get it back and get to the bottom of it. It would be much
the bottom of it. It would be much appreciated, thank you.
Owe, to be a fly on the wall
Owe, to be a fly on the well when he
Owe, to be a ﬂy on the wall when he explained that
Owe, to be a fly on the well when he explained that to his wife. That
explained that to his wife. That is it for now. More on the BBC Sport
it for now. More on the BBC Sport website. I’ll be back later.
Now, in just over three months time the eyes of the world
will be on Glasgow — as the COP26 climate change
conference gets underway.
It’ll be the biggest global summit the UK has ever hosted.
But how are we doing in our own back yard in tackling climate change?
Our Reality Check correspondent Chris Morris is here
with more details.
As the host of the Glasgow summit, the UK wants to set an example
to the rest of the world.
It does have some pretty ambitious targets, but setting targets,
and actually changing policy to achieve them, are
two different things.
So, how’s the Government doing?
Let’s take the overall target first of sharply reducing emissions
of the greenhouse gases that are warming the planet up.
There’s a legal requirement to get to net zero emissions
by the middle of the century, which means the country taking
out as much greenhouse gas from the atmosphere
as it’s putting in.
And the Government has promised a 68% reduction in emissions
compared to 1990 levels by 2030, and a 78% reduction by 2035.
There’s a good start to build on — total emissions have already fallen
fallen by 45% by 2019.
But most of that reduction was achieved by removing coal —
the most polluting fossil fuel — from energy systems.
And that was the easy hit.
Further reductions are going to have a much more direct
impact on all of us.
The independent climate change committee says it needs to deliver
committee says it needs to deliver more and publish detailed strategies
more and publish detailad strategies to
more and publish detailed strategies to reduce emissions from heating
to reduce emissions from heating buildings, that is expected soon.
buildings, that is expected soon. From transport and for the
From transport and for the production of food. Let’s look at
production of food. Let’s look at specific pledges. When it comes to
specific pledges. when it comes to heating our
specific pledges. When it comes to heating our homes which counts for
heating our homes which counts for 14% of the greenhouse emissions, the
14% of the greenhouse emissions, the Government has committed to
Government has committed to installing 600,000 heat pumps 3 year
installing 600,000 heat pumps a year by 2028 to
installing 600,000 heat pumps 3 year by 2028 to replace
installing 600,000 heat pumps a year by 2028 to replace gas boilers. Heat
by 2028 to replace gas boilers. Heat pumps transfer heat from the air,
pumps transfer heat from the air, the ground or the water around the
the ground or the water around the property. The climate change
property. The climate change committee says the target should be
committee says the target should be 900 thousands installations a year.
900 thousands installations a year. The latest available figures say
The latest available figures say that in 2019, only 35 thousands...
that in 2019, only 35 thousands... 35,000 were installed and only work
35,000 were installed and only work well if your home is properly
well if your home is properly insulated. Petrol
well if your home is properly insulated. Petroland
well if your home is properly insulated. Petrol and diesel cars
insulated. Petrol and diesel cars will be phased out by 2030. The sale
will be phased out by 2030. The sala of
will be phased out by 2030. The sale of electric cars is growing fast. Up
of electric cars is growing fast. Up by 2.595 to
of electric cars is growing fast. Up by 2.596 to just
of electric cars is growing fast. Up by 2.5% to just over one in ten new
by 2.5% to just over one in ten new
by 2.596 to just over one in ten new cars last year.
by 2.5% to just over one in ten new cars last year. You need to charge
tars last year. You need to charge all those
cars last year. You need to charge all those cars. There are about
all those cars. There are about 2500... 25,000. We need ten times
2500... 25,000. We need ten times more. Planting trees are very
more. Planting trees are very important because they help remove
important because they help remove greenhouse gas from the atmosphere.
greenhouse gas from the atmosphere. The Government has promised to plant
The Government has promised to plant 30,000 hectares of plants by 2025. I
30,000 hectares of plants by 2025. I Hector
30,000 hectares of plants by 2025. | Hector is
30,000 hectares of plants by 2025. I Hector is a bit bigger than a
Hector is a bit bigger than a football pitch. We have not planted
football pitch. We have not planted that many since the 19805. And most
that many since the 19805. And most of that was in Scotland. In England
of that was in Scotland. In England a lot more needs to be done.
a lot more needs to be done. what about capturing
a lot more needs to be done. What about capturing and storing carbon
about capturing and storing carbon securely? Before it is released or
securely? Before it is released or taking it out of the air. The
taking it out of the air. The Government wants to capture or Mac
Government wants to rapture or Mac store 10
Government wants to capture or Mac store 10 million tonnes a year. And
store 10 million tonnes a year. And the expert says we need double that.
the expert says we need double that. The technology is so new that it
The technology is so new that it will not be scaled up enough in
will not be scaled up enough in time to make a big difference. Overall
to make a big difference. Overall the climate change committee is
the climate change committee is saying could do better. In the
saying could do better. In the latest update the committee said
latest update the committee said pattern has emerged of Government
pattern has emerged of Government strategies that are later than
strategies that are later than planned and they are shorter than
planned and they are shorter than the required policy ambitions. The
the required policy ambitions. The prime ministers said that he hoped
prime ministers said that he hoped that all energy could be created by
that all energy could be created by renewable sources by 2025. But the
renewable sources by 2025. But the challenge of putting the promises
challenge of putting the promises into practices.
In less than a fortnight, the US Government will run out of money,
unless Congress votes to raise the debt ceiling —
the limit on how much it can borrow.
That would allow the US Treasury to increase its borrowing,
and keep paying its debts.
But the Republicans are at loggerheads with the Democrats over
how much money President Biden can pump into his reconstruction plans —
and the debt ceiling vote has become caught up in the row.
Nomia Iqbal reports.
US politicians are once again in a showdown,
and one which threatens to take America to the brink.
The country has less than two weeks to pay its debts.
To do that, it needs to increase the amount of money the US
Government can borrow, and Republican senators
have refused to help.
Our Republican friends need to stop playing Russian
roulette the US economy.
If they don’t want to do the job, just to get out of the way,
we’ll take the heat, we’ll do it, we will
do it, let us do it.
Let the Democrats vote to raise the debt limit without obstruction
or any further delays...
President Biden says this is about paying off
existing obligations, rather than paying for new ones.
The longer this goes on, the higher risk of the government defaulting,
impacting millions of Americans.
If Congress does not take action to raise the debt limit,
Treasury’s cash balance will reach an insufficient level
to pay the nation’s bills, and America would default
for the first time in history.
Payments for so many things, including social security
and other critical benefits, as well as military
salaries, would stop.
Analysts fear it could also lead to the loss of six million jobs.
Now Mitch McConnell has offered to support lifting the debt
ceiling by a fixed amount.
However, only until December.
Democrats are yet to accept, and if they do, it means
the stand—off will happen again in a few months.
Historically, both parties have always come together
to resolve these in the end.
The government has never deliberately failed to make
a payment, but if it does, America will face a moment it’s
never experienced before.
Nomia Iqbal, BBC News, Washington.
ii
It is time to say goodbye if you are watching us on BBC Two. Thank you
watching us on BBC Two. Thank you for your company,
watching us on BBC Two. Thank you foryour company, hope
watching us on BBC Two. Thank you for your company, hope you have a
for your company, hope you have a good afternoon.
for your company, hope you have a good afternoon. An update on our
good afternoon. An update on our headlines. Energy bills could
headlines. Energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next
increase by hundreds of pounds next year because of another big rise in
year because of another big rise in wholesale prices. Prince Andrew has
wholesale prices. Prince Andrew has given action to a sealed document
given action to a sealad document which his
given action to a sealed document which his lawyers believe could help
which his lawyers believe could help to end the sexual abuse case brought
to end the sexual abuse rase brought against him by
to end the sexual abuse case brought against him by Virginia Giuffre. A
against him by Virginia Giuffre. A federal
against him by Virginia Giuffre. A federaljudge in the United States
federal judge in the United States has
federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas that
has suspended a law in Texas that bans almost all abortions.
Householders are being warned that energy bills could increase. The
energy bills could increase. The rise would add further cost to
rise would add further cost to households following the increase in
households following the increase in the energy price cap last week. We
the energy price rap last week. We ran speak to
the energy price cap last week. We can speak to Carol who lives in
can speak to Carol who lives in Stoke—on—Trent and has seen her
Stoke-on-Trent and has seen her energy bills
Stoke—on—Trent and has seen her energy bills getting more expensive.
energy bills getting more expensive. Carol, thank you for
energy bills getting more expensive. Carol, thank you forjoining us. I
Carol, thank you for joining us. I think you are
Carol, thank you forjoining us. I think you arejoining
Carol, thank you forjoining us. I think you are joining us from the
think you arejoining us from the food
think you are joining us from the food bank were you volunteer? Yes, I
food bank were you volunteer? Yes, I am. It is good to have you with us.
am. It is good to have you with us. Tell us a bit more about your
Tell us a bit more about your situation about your energy bills.
situation about your energy bills. We shop around, you go online, you
We shop around, you go online, you always compare things. They are all
always compare things. They are all very much similar prices. You
very much similar prices. You used to be able to get deals, good deals
to be able to get deals, good deals on different ones, but they are all
on different ones, but they are all the same now. So I have stayed
the same now. So I have stayed with my provider. I was paying £53 a
my provider. I was paying £55 a month
my provider. I was paying £53 a month now I’ve gone on to a
month now I’ve gone on to a variable tariff which is not good. It is £73
tariff which is not good. It is £73 a month. It is a £20 rise. If I want
a month. It is a £20 rise. If I want to go on a fixed tariff, it is £10k.
to go on a fixed tariff, it is £104. Being in the
to go on a fixed tariff, it is £10k. Being in the situation I am, there
Being in the situation I am, there is no way I ran
Being in the situation I am, there is no way I can do that. It is just
is no way I ran do that. It is just “Y
is no way I ran do that. It is just way too much.
is no way I can do that. It is just way too much. Are you managing
way too much. Are you managing to find the extra 20 a a month? Yes,
find the extra 20 a a month? Yes, what you have got to. I’m being
what you have got to. I’m being more sparing with how I’m using the
sparing with how I’m using the heating and the water, if I wash my
heating and the water, if I wash my hands or a cup or something, I use
hands or a cup or something, I use cold water. If you use the hot
cold water. If you use the hot water, it kicks the boiler in. I’ve
water, it kicks the boilar in. I’ve always said if
water, it kicks the boiler in. I’ve always said if you had to walk
always said if you had to walk around your house wearing a cardigan
around your house wearing a cardigan there was something wrong and guess
there was something wrong and guess what, I’m doing that. I only put my
what, I’m doing that. I only put my heating on for half an hour in the
heating on for half an hour in the morning and half an hour at
morning and half an hour at night. The rest of the time I am taking
The rest of the time I am taking over the best way I can. It sounds
over the best way I ran. It sounds like you’re
over the best way I can. It sounds like you’re pretty resourceful.
like you’re pretty resourceful. You’ve got to be. Like he said, I’m
You’ve got to be. Like he said, I’m at the food bank at the moment and
at the food bank at the moment and I’ve been volunteering and I’ve been
I’ve been volunteering and I’ve been taking on -- I’ve
I’ve been volunteering and I’ve been taking on —— I’vejust been taken on
taking on -- I’ve just been taken on in a paid capacity
taking on —— I’vejust been taken on in a paid capacity for 15 hours a
in a paid capacity for 15 hours a week which I’m really enjoying. It
week which I’m really enjoying. It gets me out of the house. I’m not
gets me out of the house. I’m not using my heating. It is good at
using my heating. It is good at the moment. In my right in thinking you
moment. In my right in thinking you are on Universal Credit and impacted
are on Universal Credit and impacted by the cut in that? Oh, yes,
by the cut in that? Oh, yes, massively, massively. Basically it
massively, massively. Basically it boils down to I was down about £22 a
boils down to I was down about £22 a week for food a week. I am lucky.
week for food a week. I am lucky. I’ve got a really good network of
I’ve got a really good network of family and friends around me. They
family and friends around me. They will not see me go hungry or cold.
will not see me go hungry or cold. But it’s the people that you see
But it’s the peopla that you see coming to
But it’s the people that you see coming to the food bank and hearing
coming to the food bank and hearing what they are going through and they
what they are going through and they are going through really bad and
are going through really had and hard
are going through really bad and hard times. Mothers going to bed
hard times. Mothers going to bed hungry because they fed the children
hungry because they fed the children and not themselves. Because they are
and not themselves. Because they are worried about the heating, they are
worried about the heating, they are using coats and blankets. How are
using coats and blankets. How are peopla going
using coats and blankets. How are people going to survive like this?
peopla going to survive like this? How
people going to survive like this? How can they afford this? Do you
How ran they afford this? Do you have any
How can they afford this? Do you have any thoughts on what you
have any thoughts on what you would like the Government to do? The main
like the Government to do? The main thing they could do to help is to
thing they could do to help is to leave this COVID uplift in
leave this COVID uplift in overwinter. That would help a lot of
overwinter. That would help a lot of families just over the cold time. It
families just over the cold time. It is just -- it’s not
families just over the cold time. It isjust —— it’s notjust
families just over the cold time. It is just —— it’s notjust food and
is just -- it’s not just food and things, it is
is just —— it’s notjust food and things, it is washing and drying
things, it is washing and drying clothes. How are you going to be
clothes. How are you going to be able to do that? People used to put
able to do that? People used to put radiator on in the winter to drive
radiator on in the winter to drive dose,
radiator on in the winter to drive close, but with the price of fuel
close, but with the price of fuel you will not be able to do that.
you will not be able to do that. This £20 uplift would help massively
This £20 uplift would help massively a lot of people just over the
a lot of peopla just over the winter.
a lot of people just over the winter. You talked about the people
winter. You talked about the peopla coming to
winter. You talked about the people coming to use the food bank. You
coming to use the food bank. You also talked about how much money you
also talked about how much money you have a week to spend on food and
have a week to spend on food and toiletries and everything else,
toiletries and everything else, that’s £22. Have you been in a
that’s £22. Have you been in a position where you have had to use
position where you have had to use the food bank? How do you feel
the food bank? How do you feel about that? I have not been in that
that? I have not been in that position because I’ve got a
position because I’ve got a good network of family and friends around
network of family and friends around me. They will not let me go hungry
me. They will not let me go hungry or cold, but if I did not have that
or cold, but if I did not have that support, I would
or cold, but if I did not have that support, Iwould have
or cold, but if I did not have that support, I would have to use a food
support, I would have to use a food bank. People at my age, which I am
bank. People at my age, which I am not retirement age until next April,
not retirement age until next April, we are stuck between a rock and a
we are stuck between a rock and a hard place. Because some people do
hard place. Because some peopla do not want
hard place. Because some people do not want to employ you because of
not want to employ you because of your age and because you are so near
your age and because you are so near to retirement. It is very difficult
to retirement. It is very difficult in that respect. You want to go to
in that respect. You want to go to work and earn money. I’ve got this
work and earn money. I’ve got this job and it’s going to ease my
job and it’s going to ease my situation nicely. Not completely,
situation nicely. Not completely, but it will be better for me. What
but it will be better for me. what peopla do in
but it will be better for me. What people do in these positions I
people do in these positions I really feel for them. Christmas is
really feel for them. Christmas is coming up, how do you feel about
coming up, how do you feel about that? Yes, that’s... If you cannot
that? Yes, that’s... If you cannot afford to warm your house and feed
afford to warm your house and feed your children how can you buy
your children how can you buy Christmas presents? I’ve got 1A
Christmas presents? I’ve got 1A grandchildren and four
grandchildren and four great—grandchildren. They are going
great-grandchildren. They are going to be
great—grandchildren. They are going to be disappointed from Nana at this
to be disappointed from Nana at this Christmas because I don’t have the
Christmas because I don’t have the funds to do what I normally do.
funds to do what I normally do. Hopefully a big fat hug which was
Hopefully a big fat hug which was not possible last Christmas. Yes,
not possibla last Christmas. Yes, that will
not possible last Christmas. Yes, that will have to do. It was good to
that will have to do. It was good to talk to you, Carol. Thank you for
talk to you, Carol. Thank you for joining us. Do get in touch on
joining us. Do get in touch on Twitter if you want to share your
Twitter if you want to share your experiences and your thoughts at BBC
experiences and your thoughts at BBC joanna G.
A British woman who joined the Islamic State group
with her children says the Government should
"deal with the issue" of allowing them to return.
Nicole Jack left the UK in 2015 and is being held
with her three daughters in Syria, in a camp for wives
and children of IS fighters.
Her husband was killed in fighting in 2016.
The Home Office said its priority is to ensure the UK’s
safety and security.
Poonam Taneja reports.
This is no place for children to live.
But thousands do.
It’s home for the surviving children of Islamic State
group’s fallen caliphate.
Shall I fix your slipper?
Amongst them are three British sisters.
They are seven, nine and 12, and they live
here with their mum, Nicole Jack.
You, as their mother, decided to take your children
to Islamic State group territory to live under their regime,
it was brutal, there were beheadings, murders, massacres.
Why did you do that?
How would you explain that to anyone?
I don’t think even if I explain it, everyone would understand,
but from my point of view where I stand, firstly,
it was about my family being together, do you understand?
Honestly, secondly, what may have happened,
we have never been witness to it, my children and I, honestly.
You know, I haven’t seen a beheading in my life.
But her children have suffered trauma and loss.
Their father was killed fighting for IS.
And their ten—year—old brother Isaac died in an air
strike in front of them.
I really miss my family, I miss my granny, my aunties.
I miss my grandmother, my other grandmother.
I miss them so much.
As with so many children in the camp, it’s not clear
how they will get out.
The UK is reluctant to allow the wives of Islamic State
group’s foreign fighters to return to Britain.
They’re viewed as a threat to national security.
However, they are willing to repatriate British orphans
and unaccompanied children.
Can you ever see an option where you would send your children
to Britain to safety on their own without you?
For us as a family, we cope together.
I know for sure if my kids were separated from me,
they will not be in a stable situation, because we are a unit.
And so her daughters remain prisoners here.
A makeshift school offers a few hours of escape.
I think it is really fun learning to make different things.
I like learning, like different languages,
and like when you learn more things, your brain feels better.
I want to be smart when I grow up.
But there’s little hope of that as long as she’s in this camp,
separated from her family in the UK.
She records this message for her grandmother.
Love you guys, hope you guys are fine.
Me and my sisters and brother are fine.
Love you guys, miss you guys.
Hopefully come back soon to see you guys.
I would love to spend time with you when we come back.
It is difficult to watch for their grandmother,
Charlene Jack Henry, thousands of miles away in London.
She wants her grandchildren back home with their
mother, her daughter.
Let her come and face the consequences.
But it is not fair and it is not right for these children to be
languishing in this place.
Enough is enough.
They have already served a six—year sentence,
without even having the benefit of being taken to court
and tried by your peers.
The British Government wouldn’t comment on Nicole Jack’s case.
They say those remaining in Syria include dangerous individuals
and not to make securityjudgments based on gender and age.
But Charlene says while her daughter should face justice,
her grandchildren are innocent.
Poonam Taneja, BBC News.
James Bond actor Daniel Craig has been honoured with a star
on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
It was unveiled just yards away from his Bond
predecessor, Sir Roger Moore.
Speaking at the event, Daniel Craig said he was very happy
to be surrounded by legends.
I never thought I’d hear myself saying this, but, you know,
it’s an absolute honour to be walked all over in Hollywood, so...
And if happiness was measured by the company we keep,
then me being on this pavement, surrounded by all of these
legends, makes me a very, very, very happy man.
So thank you very much.
That was Daniel Craig. It is time now for a look at the weather.
That was Daniel Craig. It is time now for a look at the weather.
Hello again, as we go through the next few days, temperatures are
next few days, temperatures are going to be higher than we would
going to be higher than we would expect. To give you an idea this
expect. To give you an idea this is the average temperature. Through
the average temperature. Through today and tomorrow is while we are
today and tomorrow is whila we are looking at a
today and tomorrow is while we are looking at a range of 18 to 21
looking at a range of 18 to 21 degrees. What is happening is we’re
degrees. what is happening is we’re pulling up this
degrees. What is happening is we’re pulling up this milder airfrom the
pulling up this milder air from the tropic right
pulling up this milder airfrom the tropics right across our shores.
tropic right across our shores. Despite the
tropics right across our shores. Despite the fact we have the weather
Despite the fact we have the weather front draped across the parts of
front draped across the parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland, here
Scotland and Northern Ireland, here as well they will have higher than
as well they will have higher than average temperature. As well as the
average temperature. As well as the rain there’s a lot of cloud but some
rain there’s a lot of cloud but some of that is breaking up and we are
of that is breaking up and we are seeing skies. The emphasis is on a
seeing skies. The emphasis is on a cloudy day tomorrow. Temperatures
cloudy day tomorrow. Temperatures will be wildly 16 to 21 degrees. As
will be wildly 16 to 21 degrees. As we head on through the evening and
we head on through the evening and overnight, a weather front is still
overnight, a weather front is still with us. Northern Ireland and
with us. Northern Ireland and Scotland still will have brisk
Scotland still will have brisk winds. There will be some clearance
winds. There will be some clearance in the sky further south. Allowing
in the sky further south. Allowing some mist and fog patches to form.
some mist and fog patches to form. It will not be cold that night. The
It will not be cold that night. The fog will be dense in parts of
fog will be dense in parts of central southern England until it
central southern England until it lifts. Then it will break up and we
lifts. Then it will break up and we will see more sunshine than today.
will see more sunshine than today. We still do have a weather front
We still do have a weather front draped across parts of Scotland and
draped across parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland still producing
Northern Ireland still producing rain. Temperatures again, tomorrow,
rain. Temperatures again, tomorrow, 15 or 16
rain. Temperatures again, tomorrow, Ewﬁh
rain. Temperatures again, tomorrow, 15 or 16 to 20 or 21 degrees. As
15 or 16 to 20 or 21 degrees. As we move forward into the weekend, here
move forward into the weekend, here is our weather front.
move forward into the weekend, here is our weatherfront. It
move forward into the weekend, here is our weather front. It is slowly
is our weather front. It is slowly going to slip towards the south over
going to slip towards the south over the weekend. Fresher conditions will
the weekend. Fresher conditions will follow behind it. You can see that
follow behind it. You ran see that represented
follow behind it. You can see that represented quite nicely here. The
represented quite nicely here. The amber colour is a weather front, as
amber colour is a weather front, as it pushes away, we will return
it pushes away, we will return to the average temperatures. But into
the average temperatures. But into the earty part
the average temperatures. But into the early part of next week will
the earty part of next week will be seeing
the early part of next week will be seeing temperatures above average.
seeing temperatures above average. Saturday the weather front will slip
Saturday the weather front will slip towards the south and rain might be
towards the south and rain might be slower. Than fresher conditions will
slower. Than fresher conditions will come. 15 and 16 in the north and in
come. 15 and 16 in the north and in the south 18 or 19. That will
the south 18 or 19. That will continue as the weather front clears
continue as the weather front clears duﬂng
continue as the weather front clears during the course of Sunday and
during the course of Sunday and fresher conditions will come. There
fresher conditions will come. There will be quite a bit of dry weather.
This is BBC News.
The headlines at 12pm:
Energy bills could increase by hundreds of pounds next year
because of another big rise in wholesale prices.
Families, mothers going to bed hungry because they fed their
hungry because they fed their children rather than themselves
children rather than themselves because they are worrying about
because they are worrying about putting the heating on, checking
putting the heating on, checking coats and blankets on the bed to
coats and blankets on the bed to keep them warm. We are going back to
keep them warm. We are going back to the dark ages.
More countries are to be removed from the UK Government’s red list
later today, which requires travellers to stay in a quarantine
hotel when they get back to the UK.
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document
which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought
against him by Virginia Giuffre.
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas
that bans almost all abortions.
20 years on from the start of UK military operations in Afghanistan,
commemorations are held to remember the A57 British personnel
who died in the conflict.
A British woman who joined the Islamic State group with
her young children says politicians should open their minds
to allow them to return to the UK.
My physio said to me, "Where is your wedding ring?",
and I was like, oh, no.
Andy Murray has lost his wedding ring and he asks fans
to help him find it.
m:
We will have plenty more on our top
We will have planty more on our top story this
We will have plenty more on our top story this lunchtime, that rise in
story this lunchtime, that rise in gas prices. We will be talking to
gas prices. We will be talking to which
gas prices. We will be talking to Which magazine shortly to find out
which magazine shortly to find out what you ran
Which magazine shortly to find out what you can do to keep energy bills
what you ran do to keep energy bills low. The
what you can do to keep energy bills low. The Business Secretary Kwasi
low. The Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng has ruled out energy
Kwarteng has mled out energy suppliers
Kwarteng has ruled out energy suppliers are struggling to survive
suppliers are stmggling to survive as the
suppliers are struggling to survive as the cost of wholesale gas source.
as the cost of wholesala gas source. Nine
as the cost of wholesale gas source. Nine companies collapsed last month
Nine companies collapsed last month alone. We will talk more about that
alone. We will talk more about that in a little while. Before we talk
in a little while. Before we talk more about energy prices, we are
more about energy prices, we are going to go to the launch of the
going to go to the launch of the Commonwealth Games baton relay. It
Commonwealth Games baton relay. It is going to cover 90,000 miles
is going to cover 90,000 milas across
is going to cover 90,000 miles across the globe before next year’s
across the globe before next year’s event in Birmingham. It is basically
event in Birmingham. It is basically going to be met by the Queen at
going to be met by the Queen at Buckingham Palace. She will put her
Buckingham Palace. She will put her own message in the baton before
own message in the baton before Paralympic gold medallist Kadeena
Paralympic gold medallist Kadeena Cox carries it on the first leg of
Cox carries it on the first lag of its journey.
Cox carries it on the first leg of itsjourney. There
Cox carries it on the first leg of its journey. There are 7500 bearers
its journey. There are 7500 bearers who will take the baton on its
who will take the baton on its 90,000 mile
who will take the baton on its 90,000 milejourney to
who will take the baton on its 90,000 mile journey to all 72
90,000 mile journey to all 72 nations of the Commonwealth. Let’s
nations of the Commonwealth. Let’s go to Buckingham Palace.
go to Buckingham Palace. Greeting, guests, being introduced.
Greeting, guests, being introduced. And while we are looking at these
And while we are looking at these pictures, I
And while we are looking at these pictures, lam
And while we are looking at these pictures, I am joined
And while we are looking at these pictures, Iamjoined by
And while we are looking at these pictures, I am joined by our Royal
pictures, I am joined by our Royal correspondent, Sarah Campbell, and
correspondent, Sarah Campbell, and also by laura
correspondent, Sarah Campbell, and also by Laura Scott, who is our
also by laura Scott, who is our sports
also by Laura Scott, who is our sports correspondent. When we think
sports correspondent. when we think of the
sports correspondent. When we think of the Commonwealth, we think of the
of the Commonwealth, we think of the Queen, don’t we? We absolutely do
Queen, don’t we? We absolutely do think of the Queen. Just watching
think of the Queen. just watching those
think of the Queen. Just watching those pictures, we
think of the Queen. Just watching those pictures, wejust have
think of the Queen. Just watching those pictures, we just have to
those pictures, we just have to remember what an unusual sight of
remember what an unusual sight of this has been over the last 18
this has been over the last 18 months. This is the first time that
months. This is the first time that we have seen the Queen on the
we have seen the Queen on the forecourt of Buckingham Palace with
forecourt of Buckingham Palace with the band is playing in the
the band is playing in the background because of the pandemic.
background because of the pandemic. She has spent much of the last 18
She has spent much of the last 18 months at Windsor Castle, much of
months at Windsor Qsﬂa, much of the last
months at Windsor Castle, much of the last few months at Balmoral in
the last few months at Balmoral in Scotland, so it feels like, again, a
Scotland, so it feels like, again, a little bit of a step back to
little bit of a step back to normality with the Queen at
normality with the Queen at Buckingham Palace, and celebrating
Buckingham Palace, and celebrating something that has always been so
something that has always been so close to her heart, and that is the
close to her heart, and that is the Commonwealth.
The chairman of the organising committee for the Birmingham 2022
committee for the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games, John Crabtree
Commonwealth Games, john Crabtree OBE.
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN PLAYS
Well, we are going to stay on these pictures as of this ceremony starts.
pictures as of this ceremony starts. [aura Scott,
pictures as of this ceremony starts. Laura Scott, can you explain the
[aura Scott, ran you explain the significance of
Laura Scott, can you explain the significance of the Commonwealth
significance of the Commonwealth Games? How does it stand next to
Games? How does it stand next to other major sporting tournaments? I
other major sporting tournaments? I think it really depends what sport
think it really depends what sport you ask, because for sports like
you ask, because for sports like netball and squash, it is the
netball and squash, it is the pinnada for
netball and squash, it is the pinnacle for them in terms of the
pinnacle for them in terms of the global sporting calendar. Of course
global sporting alandar. Of course for other
global sporting calendar. Of course for other sports like athletics and
for other sports like athlatis and swimming,
for other sports like athletics and swimming, perhaps it doesn’t hold
swimming, perhaps it doesn’t hold that status, but we have heard from
that status, but we have heard from athletes that they are really keen
athletes that they are really keen to be part of Birmingham 2022. Dean
to be part of Birmingham 2022. Dean Asher Smith, Adam Peaty, all backing
Asher Smith, Adam Peaty, all hacking these
Asher Smith, Adam Peaty, all backing these Games and saying they want to
these Games and saying they want to take part. What we are seeing now is
take part. what we are seeing now is Dame
take part. What we are seeing now is Dame Louise Martin with
take part. What we are seeing now is Dame Louise Martin withJohn
Dame Louise Martin with john Crabtree,
Dame Louise Martin withJohn Crabtree, the chair of the
Crabtree, the chair of the Birmingham 2022 organising
Birmingham 2022 organising committee. They are there with the
committee. They are there with the baton and the message from the Queen
baton and the message from the Queen is being put into the baton. And
is being put into the baton. And that is the message that will be
that is the message that will be disclosed next summer, in
that is the message that will be disclosed next summer, inJuly, in
disclosed next summer, in july, in Birmingham,
disclosed next summer, inJuly, in Birmingham, and will be read out
Birmingham, and will be read out either by Her Majesty or by one of
either by Her Majesty or by one of her representatives. And that will
her representatives. And that will mark the official opening of the
mark the official opening of the 2022 Commonwealth Games. And it is
2022 Commonwealth Games. And it is worth saying that this baton, over
worth saying that this baton, over the next few months, is going to go
the next few months, is going to go something like 90,000 miles, carried
something like 90,000 milas, carried by around
something like 90,000 miles, carried by around 7500 people, and it really
by around 7500 peopla, and it really takes the
by around 7500 people, and it really takes the queen’s image around the
takes the queen’s image around the Commonwealth.
All the nations respect the Queen and they will feel a small part of
and they will feel a small part of her as it makes its long journey. So
her as it makes its long journey. So with the baton is being handed over,
with the baton is being handed over, as you ran see,
with the baton is being handed over, as you can see, by Her Majesty The
as you ran see, by Her Majesty The Queen.
as you can see, by Her Majesty The Queen. Prince Edward listening in.
Queen. Prince Edward listening in. And that is the first baton bearer,
And that is the first baton bearer, Kadeena Cox. This is a really
Kadeena Cox. This is a really significant moment in the baton’s
significant moment in the baton’s journey, and
significant moment in the baton’s journey, and Kadeena Cox exemplifies
journey, and Kadeena Cox exemplifies the range of sports on show today.
the range of sports on show today. She has reached the top in both
She has reached the top in both carding
She has reached the top in both cycling and athletics, a multiple
cycling and athletic, a multiple Paralympic
cycling and athletics, a multiple Paralympic champion. She did so well
Paralympic champion. She did so well at Tokyo and also in Rio. In Rio,
at Tokyo and also in Rio. In Rio, she became the first black cyclist
she became the first black cyclist to win an Olympic or Paralympic
to win an Olympic or Paralympic medal
to win an Olympic or Paralympic medalfor
to win an Olympic or Paralympic medal for Great
to win an Olympic or Paralympic medalfor Great Britain,
to win an Olympic or Paralympic medal for Great Britain, and
to win an Olympic or Paralympic medalfor Great Britain, and she
to win an Olympic or Paralympic medal for Great Britain, and she was
medal for Great Britain, and she was the first Paralympian in 50 years to
the first Paralympian in 50 years to win a cross to sports at an
win a cross to sports at an individual games. She really wants
individual games. She really wants to inspire black cyclists to take up
to inspire black cyclists to take up the sport and it is a really
the sport and it is a really significant moment. She has been
significant moment. She has been chosen as the first baton bearer.
chosen as the first baton bearer. She recently visited the redeveloped
She recently visited the redeveloped Alexandra Stadium in Birmingham. She
Alexandra Stadium in Birmingham. She said she can’t wait to be there next
said she can’t wait to be there next summer in front of home fans. For
summer in front of home fans. For many of the athletes, it will mark
many of the athletes, it will mark the first time since the pandemic
the first time since the pandemic that they will have been competing
that they will have been competing in full stadiums. That is the hope
in full stadiums. That is the hope of the organisers, that by next
of the organisers, that by next summer they will be able to have
summer they will be able to have full crowds in attendance. But you
full crowds in attendance. But you will see from the selection of the
will see from the selection of the baton bearers today, all of the home
baton bearers today, all of the home nations of the UK are represented,
nations of the UK are represented, because at the Commonwealth Games,
because at the Commonwealth Games, they don’t compete under the Great
they don’t compete under the Great Britain and Northern Ireland fry,
Britain and Northern Ireland fry, they compete for the home nations.
they compete for the home nations. Kadeena Cox will be representing
Kadeena Cox will be representing Team England and will have athletes
Team England and will have athletes from Scotland, Wales and Northern
from Scotland, Walas and Northern Ireland
from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland later in the baton relay. It
Ireland later in the baton relay. It dearty is a
Ireland later in the baton relay. It clearly is a huge honour
Ireland later in the baton relay. It clearly is a huge honourfor
Ireland later in the baton relay. It clearly is a huge honour for Kadeena
dearty is a huge honour for Kadeena Cox, you ran see
clearly is a huge honour for Kadeena Cox, you can see the broad smile on
Cox, you ran see the broad smile on her face as
Cox, you can see the broad smile on herface as she
Cox, you can see the broad smile on her face as she becomes the first
her face as she becomes the first baton bearer, stopping for
baton bearer, stopping for photographs, and there are members
photographs, and there are members of the public lining the streets, as
of the public lining the streets, as we ran
of the public lining the streets, as we can see. Week should explain that
we ran see. Week should explain that she is going to
we can see. Week should explain that she is going to do a lap with the
she is going to do a lap with the baton, isn’t she? Exactly, before
baton, isn’t she? Exactly, before she passes over the baton to Declan
she passes over the baton to Dedan james, a
she passes over the baton to Declan James, a squash player, who will
james, a squash player, who will then take
James, a squash player, who will then take it to Lauren price, who
then take it to Lauren price, who many will have seen women boxing
many will have seen women boxing gold in Tokyo. In her role as the
gold in Tokyo. In her rola as the first
gold in Tokyo. In her role as the first baton bearer, she gets to do a
first baton bearer, she gets to do a whola lap
first baton bearer, she gets to do a whole lap around and waving to the
whola lap around and waving to the crowd.
whole lap around and waving to the crowd. And the Queen, as you say, a
crowd. And the Queen, as you say, a huge honour for
crowd. And the Queen, as you say, a huge honourfor her, to take
crowd. And the Queen, as you say, a huge honour for her, to take the
huge honour for her, to take the baton from the Queen and to be this
baton from the Queen and to be this figurehead for these games. We see
figurehead for these games. We see her coming around. This will be the
her coming around. This will be the first exchange on its route. But it
first exchange on its route. But it is interesting, this game is, there
is interesting, this game is, there are two things that Birmingham 2022
are two things that Birmingham 2022 are really proud of. One is that
are really proud of. One is that there are more medal events for
there are more medal events for women than there are four men, and
women than there are four men, and that is the first global multisport
that is the first global multisport event to have that, and also this is
event to have that, and also this is the biggest para— sport programme
the biggest para- sport programme for the
the biggest para— sport programme for the Commonwealth Games, and that
for the Commonwealth Games, and that is fully integrated. She passes it
is fully integrated. She passes it to Declan James.
is fully integrated. She passes it to Declanjames. That was quite a
to Dedan james. That was quite a [aisurely trot.
to Declanjames. That was quite a leisurely trot. She did not feel the
leisurely trot. She did not feel the need to put hateful athletic ability
need to put hateful athletic ability on display there. She can go a lot
on display there. She ran go a lot faster
on display there. She can go a lot faster than that. — her
on display there. She can go a lot faster than that. — herfull
faster than that. - her full athletic
faster than that. — herfull athletic ability. She has passed the
athletic ability. She has passed the baton onto? To Declan
athletic ability. She has passed the baton onto? To DeclanJames, a
baton onto? To Dedanjames, a professional
baton onto? To Declanjames, a professional squash player, from
professional squash player, from Nottingham. And Lauren price, who
Nottingham. And Lauren price, who won Wales’ first boxing gold at
won Wales“ first boxing gold at Tokyo
won Wales’ first boxing gold at Tokyo 2020. We can see them bearing
Tokyo 2020. We ran see them bearing the baton
Tokyo 2020. We can see them bearing the baton directly behind us. And I
the baton directly behind us. And I heard Lauren price earlier, she said
heard Lauren price eartier, she said she has
heard Lauren price earlier, she said she has never taken part in
she has never taken part in something like this before. I think
something like this before. I think it will really get the athletes who
it will really get the athletes who are taking part today really excited
are taking part today really excited about next summer’s games. For many
about next summer’s games. For many of them, for Lauren, this will have
of them, for lauren, this will have been
of them, for Lauren, this will have been about Tokyo, and now their
been about Tokyo, and now their attention turns to Birmingham and
attention turns to Birmingham and what they might be able to achieve
what they might be able to achieve there. Both she and Declan have been
there. Both she and Dedan have been at the
there. Both she and Declan have been at the Commonwealth Games before.
at the Commonwealth Games before. And dearty
at the Commonwealth Games before. And clearly they will take the
And clearly they will take the opportunity to perform in front of a
opportunity to perform in front of a UK audience. They will have been
UK audience. They will have been watching them, Lauren this summer,
watching them, Lauren this summer, Kadeena Cox this summer, and I’m
Kadeena Cox this summer, and I’m sure will want to watch them take
sure will want to watch them take part in the Games. And a word or two
part in the Games. And a word or two on the selection of sporting events
on the selection of sporting events at the Commonwealth Games because
at the Commonwealth Games because that varies, doesn’t it? Birmingham
that varies, doesn’t it? Birmingham will have the biggest sporting
will have the biggest sporting programme ever. They have got the 16
programme ever. They have got the 16 core sports for the Commonwealth,
core sports for the Commonwealth, and Birmingham have chosen three
and Birmingham have chosen three extra sports which they hope will
extra sports which they hope will appeal to a young, diverse audience.
appeal to a young, diverse audience. Women’s T20 cricket, beach
Women’s 120 cricket, beach vollcyball
Women’s T20 cricket, beach volleyball and Para table tennis.
vollayball and Para table tennis. Those
volleyball and Para table tennis. Those are sports that Birmingham
Those are sports that Birmingham have chosen specifically for their
have chosen specifically for their programme, which I think shows you
programme, which I think shows you how much they want to appeal to this
how much they want to appeal to this younger audience, which perhaps at
younger audience, which perhaps at the Commonwealth Games has struggled
the Commonwealth Games has struggled with in the past.
with in the past. So
with in the past. 50 that is the start of the baton
So that is the start of the baton relay at Buckingham Palace. We will
relay at Buckingham Palace. We will catch up with the Queen’s baton
catch up with the Queen’s baton relay, travelling 90,000 miles
relay, travelling 90,000 milas around
relay, travelling 90,000 miles around the Commonwealth before
around the Commonwealth before arriving in Birmingham next year.
Householders are being warned their energy bills could rise
by another £400 early next year after gas prices soared
to record levels.
The rise would add further cost to households following the increase
in the energy price cap last week.
The Business Secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, will face industry
bosses later today as the sector deals with an unprecedented
spike in wholesale costs.
Kevin Peachey reports.
Just like the season’s weather, bill payers are being warned
the worst is yet to come.
A host of energy companies have collapsed in recent weeks.
Their customers moved to a new supplier are already having
to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
The price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises
in bills, but analysts say, next year, they will
still face a bill shock.
While there is the potential for some of these price increases
Under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year
if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
Analysts expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised
but as yet undecided cap starts in April.
Compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal
costing just over £850 a year.
We are competing with the rest of the world, the rest
of Europe for gas supplies.
Unfortunately, it is the reality.
Price comparison sites, which historically talk about how
much we can save you by switching.
The reality is that is not there at the moment,
and very few people for the whole of this year, really,
have been in a position where they would be able to save,
compared to last year.
Steel producers confirmed they halted production
at times of high demand, showing that industry,
as well as consumers, is feeling the impact
of rising costs.
Some of the heat was drawn from the crisis yesterday
when Russia said it would increase gas supplies to Europe,
helping to limit the latest surge in wholesale gas prices.
But it hasn’t ended calls for the UK Government to step in.
The Business Secretary will be expected to address concerns
of the energy sector today.
But then also the worries of businesses and consumers
in the weeks to come.
m:
We can talk now to Adam French from
We ran talk now to Adam French from the
We can talk now to Adam French from the consumer rights organisation
the consumer rights organisation which.
the consumer rights organisation Which. How much power do consumers
which. How much power do consumers have right now to
Which. How much power do consumers have right now to try to decide what
have right now to try to decide what they pay and who they are with?
they pay and who they are with? Unfortunately, very little. It is a
Unfortunately, very little. It is a really difficult situation,
really difficult situation, especially combined with the cost of
especially combined with the cost of living crisis we seem to be lurching
living crisis we seem to be lurching towards at the moment. It is going
towards at the moment. It is going to be a tough time, really, when it
to be a tough time, really, when it comes to energy bills in terms of
comes to energy bills in terms of actually saving some money on those
actually saving some money on those if you are on what is called a
if you are on what is rallad a variable
if you are on what is called a variable tariff, a rolling monthly
variable tariff, a rolling monthly contract with your energy provider,
contract with your energy provider, that is likely to be as cheap as you
that is likely to be as cheap as you ran get as
that is likely to be as cheap as you can get as things stand, which is up
ran get as things stand, which is up to the price rap.
can get as things stand, which is up to the price cap. In terms of trying
to the price rap. In terms of trying to find a
to the price cap. In terms of trying to find a better deal, as things
to find a better deal, as things stand, that
to find a better deal, as things stand, thatjust isn’t an option for
stand, that just isn’t an option for the majority of
stand, thatjust isn’t an option for the majority of us, but it does not
the majority of us, but it does not mean you have to take the hit, you
mean you have to take the hit, you can’t double—check you are on the
can’t double-check you are on the best deal you
can’t double—check you are on the best deal you possibly can be with
best deal you possibly ran be with your energy
best deal you possibly can be with your energy provider and there are
your energy provider and there are some practical steps you can take to
some practical steps you ran take to limit your
some practical steps you can take to limit your energy use and there are
limit your energy use and there are some benefits available, there are
some benefits available, there are some financial support is available,
some financial support is availabla, that ran help
some financial support is available, that can help you through what will
that ran help you through what will be a pretty
that can help you through what will be a pretty tricky winter. I spoke
be a pretty tricky winter. I spoke to one lovely woman earlier, who was
to one lovely woman eartier, who was telling us that if
to one lovely woman earlier, who was telling us that if she were on a
telling us that if she were on a fixed-price
telling us that if she were on a fixed—price deal, the cost would be
fixed-price deal, the cost would be £104 a
fixed—price deal, the cost would be £104 a calendar month at the moment,
£104 a calendar month at the moment, but she is currently paying £72 a
but she is currently paying £72 a month, it has gone up from £53 a
month, it has gone up from £55 a month, so
month, it has gone up from £53 a month, so she is better off not
month, so she is better off not being on that fixed—price deal, and
being on that fixed-price deal, and she is really
being on that fixed—price deal, and she is really mitigating her use to
she is really mitigating her use to keep that bill down. Is that advice
keep that bill down. Is that advice that you would pass on? Definitely.
that you would pass on? Definitely. If you are on the variable tariff,
If you are on the variable tariff, that is the one where the price cap
that is the one where the price rap appﬁes
that is the one where the price rap applies and
that is the one where the price cap applies and that is what will keep
applies and that is what will keep your energy bills low through this
your energy bills low through this winter.
your energy bills [ow through this winter. It is completely the
winter. It is completely the opposite to what we would usually be
opposite to what we would usually be advising people. Usually, the
advising people. Usually, the variable tariff is the most you can
variable tariff is the most you ran pay for energy
variable tariff is the most you can pay for energy and the fixed tariffs
pay for energy and the fixed tariffs are cheaper. This has really turned
are cheaper. This has really turned things on its head and it means you
things on its head and it means you are better off in a lot of cases on
are better off in a lot of cases on that variable tariff. Do sit tight
that variable tariff. Do sit tight for the time being, continue to pay
for the time being, continue to pay that and take steps to mitigate your
that and take steps to mitigate your energy use. Do things like using the
energy use. Do things like using the equal modes on your white goods,
equal modes on your white goods, turn down your thermostat a single
turn down your thermostat a single degree. Sit tight. Unfortunately,
degree. Sit tight. Unfortunately, the price cap is likely to go up in
the price rap is likely to go up in April and go up
the price cap is likely to go up in April and go up considerably. While
April and go up considerably. whila you ran sit on
April and go up considerably. While you can sit on that variable rate
you ran sit on that variable rate through the
you can sit on that variable rate through the winter, when you use the
through the winter, when you use the most energy anyway, when April comes
most energy anyway, when April comes around, we are expecting those bills
around, we are expecting those bills to go up again and it may be
to go up again and it may be worthwhile fixing to a fixed term
worthwhila fixing to a fixed term deal to
worthwhile fixing to a fixed term deal to protect yourself against
deal to protect yourself against that price increase, but with the
that price increase, but with the unpredictability of gas prices at
unpredictability of gas prices at the moment, it is really hard to
the moment, it is really hard to say, so you are probably best off
say, so you are probably best off sat tight with your energy supplier
sat tight with your energy supplier riding up this winter as affordably
riding up this winter as affordably as possible. Adam French, thank you
as possible. Adam French, thank you very much for
as possible. Adam French, thank you very much forjoining us. We will
very much for joining us. We will have more
very much forjoining us. We will have more on that in just a few
have more on that in just a few moments, but we are going to go to
moments, but we are going to go to sport. Any news yet about Newcastle?
sport. Any news yet about Newcastle? Not since we last spoke. The Premier
Not since we last spoke. The Premier League still have to approve this
League still have to approve this and in the last hour, Amnesty
and in the last hour, Amnesty International has urged the Premier
International has urged the Premier League to change its owners and
League to change its owners and directors test to address human
directors test to address human rights issue, that’s around the
rights issue, that’s around the Saudi Arabian back takeover of
Saudi Arabian back takeover of Newcastle. A consortium providing
Monastic. A consortium providing most of
Newcastle. A consortium providing most of the many for the £300
most of the many for the £300 million deal would be in control of
million deal would be in control of Nemstla,
million deal would be in control of Newcastle, not the Saudi state.
Newcastle, not the Saudi state. However, Amnesty International has
However, Amnesty International has urged the Premier League not to
urged the Premier League not to allow those involved in human rights
allow those involved in human rights violations to walk into football
violations to walk into football just because they have deep pockets.
just because they have deep pockets. Many fans are just happy the deal is
Many fans are just happy the deal is getting close to completion.
getting close to completion. Football fans don’t get a choice in
Football fans don’t get a choice in who buys their football club,
Football fans don’t get a choice in who buys theirfootball club, we
who buys their football club, we have no say.
who buys theirfootball club, we have no say. It has dragged on for
have no say. It has dragged on for 18 months. Newcastle fans are just
18 months. Nemsﬂa fans are just excited
18 months. Newcastle fans are just excited at the prospect of having a
excited at the prospect of having a football club to believe again.
football club to believe again. Newcastle fans are delighted that
Newcastle fans are delighted that the disastrous 1A year reign of Mike
the disastrous 14 year reign of Mike Ashley is
the disastrous 1A year reign of Mike Ashley is nearly over, so the
Ashlay is hearty over, so the majority of
Ashley is nearly over, so the majority of our fan base has reacted
majority of our fan base has reached with
majority of our fan base has reacted with overwhelming positivity.
with overwhelming positivity. Meanwhile, the chief executive of
Meanwhile, the chief executive of the Professional Footballers’
the Professional Footballers’ Association
the Professional Footballers’ Association says all footballers
Association says all footballers have been given education and
have been given education and guidance on the importance of
guidance on the importance of getting the corona virus vaccine. It
getting the corona virus vaccine. It follows reports that a low
follows reports that a low percentage of players have had the
percentage of players have had the jab, but she insists most of those
jab, but she insists most of those involved to understand the benefits
involved to understand the benefits of getting the vaccine.
of getting the vaccine. I think the message is very clear
I think the message is very clear and the message is that the
and the message is that the organisation is supportive and
organisation is supportive and understands the vaccination
understands the vaccination roll—out. We want to get back to
roll-out. We want to get back to some sort
roll—out. We want to get back to some sort of normality and this is
some sort of normality and this is the right way forward. Obviously,
the right way forward. Obviously, taking the vaccine or not is a
taking the vaccine or not is a personal choice and therefore what
personal choice and therefore what we understand is, we need to make
we understand is, we need to make sure that the players are able to
sure that the players are able to make an educated decision based on
make an educated decision based on science.
science. The National women’s soccer league
The National women’s soccer league resumed last night in the United
resumed last night in the United States after matches were suspended
States after matches were suspended following the dismissal of the head
following the dismissal of the head coach of Carolina Courage amid
coach of Carolina Courage amid allegations of sexual misconduct.
allegations of sexual misconduct. Players are stopped on the field in
Players are stopped on the field in the sixth minute of the game and
the sixth minute of the game and linked arms in a circle to
linked arms in a circle to demonstrate solidarity with two
demonstrate solidarity with two former players. They both came
former players. They both came forward with allegations of sexual
forward with allegations of sexual harassment and misconduct. He was
harassment and misconduct. He was fired last Thursday but he denies
fired last Thursday but he denies the allegations.
the allegations. Cricket, and England all—rounder
the allagations. Cricket, and England all-rounder Ben
Cricket, and England all-rounder Ben Stokes is
Cricket, and England all—rounder Ben Stokes is unlikely to play in the
Stokes is unlikely to play in the Ashes in Australia this winter after
Ashes in Australia this winter after having a second operation on his
having a second operation on his injured left index finger. He took
injured left index finger. He took an indefinite break
injured left index finger. He took an indefinite breakfrom cricket in
an indefinite break from cricket in July
an indefinite break from cricket in july to protect
an indefinite breakfrom cricket in July to protect his mental health
july to protect his mental health and to
July to protect his mental health and to rest his finger, which he
and to rest his finger, which he first injured back in April. This
first injured back in April. This second operation was to remove two
second operation was to remove two screws and some scar tissue. The
screws and some scar tissue. The ashes are scheduled to begin in
ashes are scheduled to begin in December with the ECB expected to
December with the ECB expected to make an announcement on whether the
make an announcement on whether the tour will go ahead or not tomorrow.
tour will go ahead or not tomorrow. More on that story involving
More on that story involving Newcastle United on the BT — BBC
Nemsﬂa United on the BT - BBC Sport
Newcastle United on the BT — BBC Sport website.
Sport website. The Business Secretary Kwasi
The Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng has ruled out tailing out
Kwarteng has mled out tailing out energy
Kwarteng has ruled out tailing out energy suppliers are struggling to
energy suppliers are struggling to survive. Nine collapsed last month
survive. Nine collapsed last month alone. The higher cost will be
alone. The higher cost will be passed households, which could see
passed households, which could see electricity and gas bills rise by
electricity and gas bills rise by hundreds of pounds next year. Prices
hundreds of pounds next year. Prices in the shops could go up because it
in the shops could go up because it is now more expensive to produce
is now more expensive to produce goods. Let’s get more for our
goods. Let’s get more for our political correspondent. So many
political correspondent. So many issues conﬂating here. What is the
issues conﬂating here. what is the latest
issues conﬂating here. What is the latest thinking from the government?
latest thinking from the government? It seems they are digging in their
It seems they are digging in their heels. Lots of calls from industry,
heels. Lots of falls from industry, from
heels. Lots of calls from industry, from opposition parties to do more
from opposition parties to do more to act, but the Business Secretary
to act, but the Business Secretary making it clear this morning that he
making it clear this morning that he would not be stepping in to bail out
would not be stepping in to bailout failed
would not be stepping in to bail out failed companies, as he called them.
failed companies, as he called them. That is one
failed companies, as he railed them. That is one thing.
failed companies, as he called them. That is one thing. We are also
That is one thing. We are also hearing from government insiders
hearing from government insiders that a fundamental change is needed.
that a fundamental change is needed. What this highlights is that we are
what this highlights is that we are too
What this highlights is that we are too reliant on gas suppliers from
too reliant on gas suppliers from overseas, we need to be producing
overseas, we need to be producing more energy ourselves in the UK, so
more energy ourselves in the UK, so Kwasi Kwarteng reiterating what
Kwasi Kwarteng reiterating what Boris
Kwasi Kwarteng reiterating what BorisJohnson said at the
BorisJohnson said at the Conservative Party conference
Conservative Party conference yesterday, that the government would
yesterday, that the government would be investing more in renewable
be investing more in renewable energy and in nuclear power. The
energy and in nuclear power. The Business Secretary said that by the
Business Secretary said that by the end of this Parliament, the
end of this Parliament, the government would want to invest in
government would want to invest in one more nuclear power station
one more nuclear power station somewhere else in the country to
somewhere else in the country to deal with this wider issue. I
deal with this wider issue. I suppose what we are getting here is
suppose what we are getting here is a similar message from what we had
a similar message from what we had from the Prime Minister yesterday in
from the Prime Minister yesterday in terms of the labour shortages in the
terms of the labour shortages in the country. There are no quick fixes.
country. There are no quick fixes. We need fundamental change in our
We need fundamental change in our economy. That was the message from
economy. That was the message from the Prime Minister yesterday. There
the Prime Minister yesterday. There are those who think the upbeat tone
are those who think the upbeat tone of his speech yesterday was a bit
of his speech yesterday was a bit tinny aid, and what we are here
tinny aid, and what we are here today from ministers might not chime
today from ministers might not chime all that well with families having
all that well with families having to absorb these increasing bills for
to absorb these increasing bills for their energy, there are problems
their energy, there are problems with the removal of the uplift
with the removal of the uplift to Universal Credit, 6 million families
Universal Credit, 6 million families affected by that, so a lot of people
affected by that, so a lot of people potentially facing a tough winter,
potentially facing a tough winter, and beyond that we have got tax
and beyond that we have got tax rises coming in the spring, national
rises coming in the spring, national insurance rises, and a warning from
insurance rises, and a warning from the Institute for Fiscal Studies
the Institute for Fiscal Studies that council tax looks set to go up
that council tax looks set to go up by around 596
that council tax looks set to go up by around 5% in April, according to
by around 596 in April, according to their
by around 5% in April, according to their calculations. The budget is
their ralmlations. The budget is three
their calculations. The budget is three weeks away, is there likely to
three weeks away, is there likely to be anything in it? I spoke to Ed
be anything in it? I spoke to Ed Miliband earlier, the Shadow
Miliband earlier, the Shadow Business Secretary, and he said
Business Secretary, and he said labour
Business Secretary, and he said Labour are not going to stop pushing
labour are not going to stop pushing for that
Labour are not going to stop pushing for that £20 uplift to Universal
for that £20 uplift to Universal Credit to come back, even though it
Credit to come back, even though it was cut yesterday. We will wait and
was cut yesterday. We will wait and see what Rishi Sunak says. This is a
see what Rishi Sunak says. This is a government that has shown itself
government that has shown itself prepared to U—turn when necessary,
prepared to U-turn when necessary, so if there
prepared to U—turn when necessary, so if there is a huge backlash from
so if there is a huge backlash from people to this, never say never, but
people to this, never say never, but the message from Boris
people to this, never say never, but the message from BorisJohnson
the message from Doris johnson yesterday
the message from BorisJohnson yesterday in terms of the economy is
yesterday in terms of the economy is that we have got to deal with a
that we have got to deal with a pretty tough situation now. £2
pretty tough situation now. £2 trillion is the level of national
trillion is the level of national debt and that is why they have had
debt and that is why they have had to put up national insurance to pay
to put up national insurance to pay for their long—term plan for social
for their long-term plan for social rare and
for their long—term plan for social care and the NHS. The message we
rare and the NHS. The message we will get from
care and the NHS. The message we will get from the Chancellor is not
will get from the Chancellor is not one of hand—outs, it will be more
one of hand-outs, it will be more pain to come.
one of hand—outs, it will be more pain to come. We need to take those
pain to come. We need to take those necessary decisions to sort out the
necessary decisions to sort out the long-term
necessary decisions to sort out the long—term structural problems in the
long-term stmctural problams in the economy. what
long—term structural problems in the economy. What he may well do is
economy. what he may well do is announce
economy. What he may well do is announce extra investment in
announce extra investment in renewable energy and nuclear power
renewable energy and nuclear power to address those concerns about our
to address those concerns about our overreliance on energy from overseas
overreliance on energy from overseas which ultimately could have an
which ultimately could have an impact on what we have seen in the
impact on what we have seen in the past four weeks or so with the surge
past four weeks or so with the surge in wholesale gas prices causing
in wholesala gas prices causing wider
in wholesale gas prices causing wider problems in our economy.
At dawn today, wreaths were [aid at the Bastion Memorial
in Staffordshire and at the Iraq and Afghanistan Memorial
in central London.
A57 British personnel were killed during the conflict.
UK troops left Afghanistan at the end of August, bringing
an end to the two decade war.
The Institute for Fiscal Studies 5575
The Institute for Fiscal Studies says council tax in England may have
says council tax in England may have to rise by as much as 5% per year
to rise by as much as 596 per year for the
to rise by as much as 5% per year for the next three years to pay for
for the next three years to pay for reforms to social care. The
reforms to social rare. The government
reforms to social care. The government says it has allocated
government says it has allocated more than £12 billion directly to
more than £12 billion directly to councils since the start of the
councils since the start of the pandemic and has taken historic
pandemic and has taken historic action to fix the social care
action to fix the social care crisis.
crisis. NatWest has pleaded guilty at
NatWest has pleaded guilty at Westminster Magistrates’ Court to
Westminster Magistrates’ Court to three
Westminster Magistrates’ Court to three counts of failing to prevent
three counts offailing to prevent alleged
three counts of failing to prevent alleged money laundering with nearly
allaged money laundering with nearty £400
alleged money laundering with nearly £400 million. The bank is the first
£400 million. The bank is the first British lender to admit such
British lender to admit such offences.
Ajudge in the US has given permission for Prince Andrew’s legal
team to get access to a confidential settlement agreement
which they believe will negate a civil claim
being pursued against him.
The claim was based on allegations of sexual assault made
by Virginia Giuffre.
Prince Andrew has always denied those allegations.
Our correspondent Nada Tawfik is in New York with the latest.
Now with the judge’s sign—off, Prince Andrew’s legal team will very
soon get their hands on this confidential document
that they believe will end the civil lawsuit against him.
In a previous court hearing, the Prince’s lawyer said that
a settlement agreement reached between Virginia Giuffre and the sex
offenderJeffrey Epstein essentially absolved anyone associated
with Epstein from any and all potential liability.
Now, Virginia Giuffre and her legal team, and Epstein’s estate,
have all consented to handing over that document and now
they have thejudge’s sign—off to do that.
But her lawyer David Boies has said that he believes this
settlement is irrelevant to Prince Andrew’s case.
He says that essentially they have the right to review it
and to make whatever arguments they want based on it,
but he doesn’t believe that their characterisation is accurate.
There will be arguments in this case, another
hearing, early next month.
Detectives are appealing for the pub“:
Detectives are appealing for the public bus might help to locate two
public bus might help to locate two missing teenage girl is believed to
missing teenage girt is believed to be at
missing teenage girl is believed to be at risk of harm. 15—year—old
be at risk of harm. 15-year-old Andrea
be at risk of harm. 15—year—old Andrea was last seen on Friday, the
Andrea was last seen on Friday, the 1st of October, in Canterbury, Kent,
1st of October, in Canterbury, Kent, and Isabella was seen on the 3rd of
and Isabella was seen on the 3rd of October in Harrow, west London.
October in Harrow, west London. Now for a look at the weather.
1. II
If you like your weather a bit warmer, that is going to be the case
warmer, that is going to be the use over the
warmer, that is going to be the case over the next few days. Today we
over the next few days. Today we have got quite a bit of clout around
have got quite a bit of clout around but it is breaking in places, we
but it is breaking in places, we have got some sunshine, but weather
have got some sunshine, but weather fronts creating rain across Northern
fronts creating rain across Northern Ireland and Scotland. Temperatures
Ireland and Scotland. Temperatures between 16 and 21 degrees. As we
between 16 and 21 degrees. As we head through the evening and
head through the evening and overnight, we continue with this
overnight, we continue with this rain across parts of Northern
rain across parts of Northern Ireland and Scotland. That will
Ireland and Scotland. That will drift into north—west England and
drift into north—west England and north—west Wales, that clear skies
north-west Wales, that clear skies developing in
north—west Wales, that clear skies developing in northern Scotland and
developing in northern Scotland and southern England. This is where we
southern England. This is where we will see some folk develop. That it
will see some folk develop. That it is not going to be a cold night. We
is not going to be a cold night. We start off with that fog across
start off with that fog across central and southern England
central and southern England tomorrow. It will lift into low
tomorrow. It will lift into low cloud and we should see more
cloud and we should see more sunshine than today. But we still
sunshine than today. But we still have our weather front across
have our weather front across Northern Ireland and Scotland
Northern Ireland and Scotland reducing some brisk winds and some
reducing some brisk winds and some rain at times, and still warm.
Hello, this is BBC News with Joanna Gosling.
The headlines...
The UK Government rules out rescuing
The UK Government mles out rescuing energy
The UK Government rules out rescuing energy suppliers struggling to
energy suppliers struggling to survive. More countries are going to
survive. More countries are going to be removed from the red list travel
be removed from the red list travel list later. It requires travellers
list later. It requires travellers to stay in a traveller did
to stay in a traveller did quarantine hotel.
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document
which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought
against him by Virginia Giuffre.
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas that
bans almost all abortions.
20 years on from the start of UK military operations in Afghanistan,
commemorations are held to remember the A57 British personnel
who died in the conflict.
A British woman who joined the Islamic State group
with her young children says politicians should "open
their minds" to allowing them to return to the UK.
m:
We will stay with that British woman who joined the Islamic State with
who joined the Islamic State with her children. She said that the
her children. She said that the Government should deal with the
Government should deal with the issue of allowing them to return.
issue of allowing them to return. Nicole jack
issue of allowing them to return. Nicole Jack left the UK in 2015 and
Nicole jack left the UK in 2015 and is being held
Nicole Jack left the UK in 2015 and is being held with her three
is being held with her three daughters in Syria in a camp for
daughters in Syria in a ramp for wives
daughters in Syria in a camp for wives and children. Her husband was
wives and children. Her husband was killed in fighting in 2016. The Home
killed in fighting in 2016. The Home Office says its priority is to
Office says its priority is to ensure the UK’s safety and security.
ensure the UK’s safety and security. We have this report.
This is no place for children to live.
But thousands do.
It’s home for the surviving children of Islamic State
group’s fallen caliphate.
Shall I fix your slipper?
Amongst them are three British sisters.
They are seven, nine and 12, and they live
here with their mum, Nicole Jack.
You, as their mother, decided to take your children
to Islamic State group territory to live under their regime,
it was brutal, there were beheadings, murders, massacres.
Why did you do that?
How would you explain that to anyone?
I don’t think even if I explain it, everyone would understand,
but from my point of view where I stand, firstly,
it was about my family being together, do you understand?
Honestly, secondly, what may have happened,
we have never been witness to it, my children and I, honestly.
You know, I haven’t seen a beheading in my life.
But her children have suffered trauma and loss.
Their father was killed fighting for IS.
And their ten—year—old brother Isaac died in an air
strike in front of them.
I really miss my family, I miss my granny, my aunties.
I miss my grandmother, my other grandmother.
I miss them so much.
As with so many children in the camp, it’s not clear
how they will get out.
The UK is reluctant to allow the wives of Islamic State
group’s foreign fighters to return to Britain.
They’re viewed as a threat to national security.
However, they are willing to repatriate British orphans
and unaccompanied children.
Can you ever see an option where you would send your children
to Britain to safety on their own without you?
For us as a family, we cope together.
I know for sure if my kids were separated from me,
they will not be in a stable situation, because we are a unit.
And so her daughters remain prisoners here.
A makeshift school offers a few hours of escape.
I think it is really fun learning to make different things.
I like learning, like different languages,
and like when you learn more things, your brain feels better.
I want to be smart when I grow up.
But there’s little hope of that as long as she’s in this camp,
separated from her family in the UK.
She records this message for her grandmother.
Love you guys, hope you guys are fine.
Me and my sisters and mother are fine.
Love you guys, miss you guys.
Hopefully come back soon to see you guys.
I would love to spend time with you when we come back.
It is difficult to watch for their grandmother,
Charlene Jack Henry, thousands of miles away in London.
She wants her grandchildren back home with their
mother, her daughter.
Let her come and face the consequences.
But it is not fair and it is not right for these children to be
languishing in this place.
Enough is enough.
They have already served a six—year sentence,
without even having the benefit of being taken to court
and tried by your peers.
The British Government wouldn’t comment on Nicole Jack’s case.
They say those remaining in Syria include dangerous individuals
and not to make securityjudgments based on gender and age.
But Charlene says while her daughter should face justice,
her grandchildren are innocent.
Poonam Taneja, BBC News.
A Premier League footballer has been arrested on suspicion
of sexually assaulting a woman.
The man is in his 205 and plays for Brighton and Hove Albion.
He was arrested at a nightclub in Brighton early on Wednesday.
The club said it was helping police with the investigation.
The Biden administration has supported a court’s support to
supported a court’s support to suspend the controversial law of
suspend the controversial law of banning abortions and Texans after
banning abortions and Texans after the sixth week of pregnancy. The
the sixth week of pregnancy. The judge described it as an offensive
judge described it as an offensive deprivation of an important right.
deprivation of an important right. State authorities have lodged an
State authorities have lodged an appeal. In a landmark decision last
appeal. In a landmark decision last month, the conservative majority on
month, the conservative majority on the US Supreme Court agreed to let
the US Supreme Court agreed to let the restriction stand resulting
the restriction stand resulting in protest around the United States.
protest around the United States. Today marks the 20th anniversary of
Today marks the 20th anniversary of US led attacks in Afghanistan. This
US lad attacks in Afghanistan. This summer
US led attacks in Afghanistan. This summer troops finally pulled out as
summer troops finally pulled out as it fell back under Taliban rule. Our
it fell back under Taliban rule. Our defence correspondent has been
defence correspondent has been speaking to some of those involved
speaking to some of those involved in the conflict.
A57 British military personnel lost their lives in Afghanistan.
One of them was Claire and Brian Hill’s only son, James.
It never leaves us.
We don’t have a son anymore, we don’t have any other children.
There is an emptiness, there’s a hole
that nothing can fill.
Remembrance Day for most people is November the 11th, but,
for the likes of us, Remembrance Day is every day.
It’s nearly 12 years to the day that James Hill was killed
by an improvised explosive device in Helmand.
He was just 23 and about to get married.
His parents are proud of his service and his sacrifice,
though the recent return of Afghanistan to Taliban control
has been hard for them to bear.
If we were to say now, yes, James’s life was wasted,
then that would hurt us all over again, because we have to believe
that what he did made a difference and what they all did,
and that they gave so much, notjust the ones who died,
but the ones who carry on with injuries.
One hand says, what the heck did we go there for?
The other hand says, we’ve stopped any terrorist
atrocities on our streets.
And, as Claire said, another 9/11.
So it’s...
It’s very, very difficult.
And when you balance that, do you think the sacrifice that
you’ve made of your only son has been worth it?
No.
No.
Nothing is worth it.
That’s not worth anything.
I am moving with a piece of equipment over a patch of ground
that had been walked on by 30 or A0 people already and then,
massive explosion.
And I had stepped on a pressure plate IED, it functioned and,
thankfully, it was only me that got hurt but it was quite severe,
it took both legs above the knee.
Luke Sinnott is one of more than 300 British troops who lost limbs
in Afghanistan.
But he has battled through his severe injuries
with the help of sport.
He was due to take part in the Tokyo Paralympics this summer,
but, because of an injury,
he had to stay home and witness
the collapse of the country in which he once fought.
And the desperate scenes of those trying to leave.
Getting injured, not going to Tokyo and then the Afghanistan withdrawal,
you know, it’s been a mentally rough period for the summer.
From my point of view, we were on the ground,
we were moving IEDs and giving people some safety, some remnants
of safety in the country and kids the ability to go to school,
so I will never regret that, I can hold my head high
on what we did out there.
If I could make a deal tomorrow and get my legs back, I would.
My view of Afghanistan is a very clear one to me
and that is the intent of what we were trying
to do was always right.
to do was always right.
The concept was flawed.
Too little, too late and we quit way too soon.
And that is the great tragedy of Afghanistan.
Stuart Tootal led the first British troops into Helmand in 2006.
He commanded the 3rd Battalion, the Parachute Regiment,
who suffered the first serious casualties of the war,
with dozens injured and 15 killed.
What was then supposed to have been a simple peace
support operation turned into a bloody
counterinsurgency conflict.
If you wanted to pick the positives out, you can turn round and say,
well, we gave the Afghans 20 years of an opportunity of how
life might be different.
That’s true.
The trouble is, that opportunity never realised itself fully
because the Taliban are now back in control, but I don’t think we can
be very proud of the outcome.
We can be proud of what we tried to do as soldiers, but in terms
of those responsible for the strategic decisions,
I don’t think there’s a great deal to crow about
in terms of there being a particular...
There is no victory here.
You know, we did not win that conflict.
There was little fanfare when the last British troops left
Afghanistan earlier this year.
This, the low—key ceremony in Kabul before the chaotic exit.
Wars without victory are often forgotten,
but the hopes of all those who served there and who lost
loved ones is that their sacrifice will never be forgotten.
Jonathan Beale, BBC News.
ii
It is 118 -- it is 18
It is 118 —— it is 18 minutes to one
It is 118 -- it is 18 minutes to one o’clock.
The headlines on BBC News...
The UK Government rules out rescuing energy suppliers struggling
to survive amid soaring wholesale gas prices.
Prince Andrew is given access to a sealed document
which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought
which his lawyers believe could help end the sexual abuse case brought
against him by Virginia Giuffre.
A federaljudge in the United States has suspended a law in Texas that
Now, in just over three months time the eyes of the world
will be on Glasgow — as the COP26 climate change
conference gets underway.
It’ll be the biggest global summit the UK has ever hosted.
But how are we doing in our own back yard in tackling climate change?
Our Reality Check correspondent Chris Morris is here
with more details.
As the host of the Glasgow summit, the UK wants to set an example
to the rest of the world.
It does have some pretty ambitious targets, but setting targets,
and actually changing policy to achieve them, are
two different things.
So, how’s the Government doing?
Let’s take the overall target first of sharply reducing emissions
of the greenhouse gases that are warming the planet up.
There’s a legal requirement to get to net zero emissions
by the middle of the century, which means the country taking
out as much greenhouse gas from the atmosphere
as you put in.
And the Government has promised a 68% reduction in emissions
compared to 1990 levels by 2030, and a 78% reduction by 2035.
There’s a good start to build on.
Total emissions have already fallen by 45% by 2019.
But most of that reduction was achieved by removing coal —
the most polluting fossil fuel — from energy systems.
And that was the easy hit.
Further reductions are going to have a much more direct
impact on all of us.
An independent climate change committee says it needs to deliver
more and publish detailed strategies to reduce emissions from heating
buildings, that is expected soon.
From transport and from the production of food.
Let’s look at specific pledges.
When it comes to heating our homes which counts for 14%
of the UK’s greenhouse emissions, the Government has committed
to installing 600,000 heat pumps 3 year by 2028
to replace gas boilers.
Heat pumps transfer heat from the air, the ground
or the water around the property.
The climate change committee says the target should be 900,000
installations a year.
The latest available figures say that in 2019,
only 35,000 were installed and only work well if your home
is properly insulated.
So, plenty to do.
Transport is another big issue and the Government has said
new petrol and diesel cars will be phased out by 2030.
The sale of electric cars is growing fast —
up from 2.5% of the total in 2018 to just over one in ten new cars
in ten new cars last year.
But you need to charge all those cars.
There are currently about 25,000 charging points in the country
and the Competition and Markets Authority says
there needs to be ten times that number by the end of the decade.
Planting trees is really important because trees help remove greenhouse
gases from the atmosphere.
The Government has promised to plant 30,000 hectares of trees a year
by 2025 — a hectare is a bit bigger than a football pitch.
We have planted that much in this country since the 19805.
And most of the recent planting has happened in Scotland.
In England a lot more needs to be done. What about capturing and
done. what about capturing and storing
done. What about capturing and storing carbon securely either early
storing carbon securely either earty before it
storing carbon securely either early before it is released or taken out
before it is released or taken out of the air? The Government wants
of the air? The Government wants to rapture 10
of the air? The Government wants to capture 10 million tonnes of carbon
rapture 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxin by
capture 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxin by 2030. Experts say they
dioxin by 2030. Experts say they should be aiming for double that.
should be aiming for double that. The trouble is the technology is so
The trouble is the technology is so new it will not be scaled up enough
new it will not be scaled up enough in time to make a big difference
in time to make a big difference this decade. Overall, the climate
this decade. Overall, the climate change committee is saying it could
change committee is saying it could do better. In the latest update it
do better. In the latest update it 5575
do better. In the latest update it says a pattern has emerged in
says a pattern has emerged in Government strategies that are later
Government strategies that are later than planned and when they do
than planned and when they do emerge, they are short of required
emerge, they are short of required policy ambition.
Well, we’ve had another big announcement from the Prime Minister
this week, promising to generate all electricity in the UK
from renewable sources, no more gas or other fossil
fuels by 2035.
Climate experts say that’s a really big deal,
but the challenge is still putting the promises into practice.
That was Chris Morris.
The RIBA Stirling Prize, for Britain’s Best New Building,
will be announced next week — in alive programme here
on the BBC News Channel.
Cambridge short met Cambridge Mosque is on the short list. Let’s take a
is on the short list. Let’s take a look.
When you enter the space, it feels very other,
and hopefully uplifting.
I don’t think, as architects, we can hope for anything
more than that, really.
My name isJulia Barfield, I’m one of the co—founders
of Marks Barfield Architects, and we are the architects
of the Cambridge Central Mosque.
We hadn’t designed a mosque before, so of course we did a lot
of research to find out about mosque design throughout the world,
and what we discovered was that, historically and globally,
mosques generally took on the character of the place
that they were in and the time they were in, so what
should a British mosque of the 20th century he like?
David, my partner, was the one who came up with this idea
of the glade of trees, and the garden of paradise.
Trees in this glade of trees became the structural trees.
This is an entirely timber—structured building.
Timber is beautiful, it’s very sustainable.
But also, it’s got that connection with nature, which is,
in Islam, very important.
That’s also one of the kind of features of this place is that
you naturally somehow look up, which seems appropriate
for a sacred space.
It’s a space that is used by the whole community,
notjust the Muslim community.
The idea is that the mosque is not just a place for worship,
it’s so lovely to see there’s that sense of pride and ownership,
notjust for Muslims in Cambridge but also the wider community too.
You’re sort of met with his immediate calm and sense of peace,
and it’s something that visitors get to experience when they visit,
but something I get to experience every day, so it’s just phenomenal.
We’ve kept the energy usage down as much as possible,
as well as trying to address embodied carbon in the
choice of materials.
All the rainwater is captured, it’s used to flush the toilets
and also to help water the garden.
In a sense, we were trying to kind of combine the English
sacred architecture with Islamic traditions.
We wanted to construct something that was a symbol of hope,
that this difference is notjust about problems of integration
but is about the inherent interests of bringing together different
narratives, different civilisations, different ethnicities, languages,
cultural communities.
It is a kind of celebration of the very central contribution
that Islam brings to the rainbow diversity that makes modern
Britain so fascinating.
Muslim, Islamic culture has been part of British culture for so long,
and I hope this building reaffirms that, it brings the two together.
One of the contenders for the RIBA Stirling Prize.
And there will be Live coverage of the award ceremony
here on the BBC News Channel on the 14th of October.
Nine months after it was rolled out the AstraZeneca vaccine finally
the AstraZeneca vaccine finally reached the Antarctic.
It was flown there this week to immunise the 23 staff members
who’ve been keeping a British research station running
through the polar winter.
Our science correspondent Jonathan Amos reports.
It is literally at the end of the Earth.
This is the Antarctic, a place of extremes where you really
must avoid getting sick.
Which is why the arrival this week of the AstraZeneca Covid
vaccine is so important.
It will keep those who work on the white continent safe.
Getting the coronavirus jabs there, however, has been a grand challenge.
It is a 10,000—mile flight from England to the Rothera station,
with stopovers required in Africa and the Falklands.
But the AstraZeneca vaccine is now in the arms
of the scientists who reside on the Antarctic Peninsula
during its cold, dark winter.
They know it helps protect in case Covid got to the station,
but also they are going to be leaving in the next few months,
anyway, so that group is going to do their summer season
at Rothera and then they are going back,
and perhaps one of the scariest parts is when one of the team get
back into UK society and Covid, there are so many cases per day.
So we are protecting that team before they have to get back
on the air bridge flights back to the UK and back to see
their family and friends.
This is the furthest south the AstraZeneca jab has reached.
It means all continents have now received at least some doses.
There has been very little Covid, so far, in Antarctica.
Just one isolated outbreak at a Chilean research station.
International science agencies want to keep it that way and anyone
going south in the coming months will still have to quarantine.
Jonathan Amos, BBC News.
m:
We are going to go back to what’s happening with the price of energy.
happening with the price of energy. The energy secretary has ruled out
The energy secretary has mled out bailing out
The energy secretary has ruled out bailing out energy company
bailing out energy company struggling to survive. Analyst say
stmggling to survive. Analyst say the high cost
struggling to survive. Analyst say the high cost of energy will be
the high cost of energy will be passed on to households who could
passed on to households who could see Bill’s rise by hundreds of
see Bill’s rise by hundreds of pounds of next year. Manufacturers
pounds of next year. Manufacturers are also warning that prices in the
are also warning that prices in the shop could go up because it is now
shop could go up because it is now more expensive to produce their
more expensive to produce their goods. Carol lives in Stoke—on—Trent
goods. Carol lives in Stoke-on-Trent and she has
goods. Carol lives in Stoke—on—Trent and she has seen her energy bills
and she has seen her energy bills and generally household bills
and generally household bills getting more expensive. I spoke to
getting more expensive. I spoke to her earlier at the food bank where
her eartier at the food bank where she
her earlier at the food bank where she works and she told us more about
she works and she told us more about her energy bills.
We shop around, you go online, you always compare things.
They are all very much similar prices.
You used to be able to get deals, good deals on different ones,
but they are all the same now.
So I have stayed with my provider.
I was paying £53 a month, now I’ve gone on to a variable
tariff, which is not good.
It is £73 a month.
It is a £20 rise.
If I want to go on a fixed tariff, it is £10k.
Being in the situation I am, there is no way I can do that.
It is just way too much.
Are you managing to find the extra 20 a month?
Yes, what you have got to.
You have got no choice, really..
I’m being more sparing with how I’m using the heating and the water,
if I wash my hands or a cup or something, I use cold water.
If you use the hot water, it kicks the boiler in.
You don’t want that happening.
I’ve always said if you had to walk around your house wearing a cardigan
there was something wrong and guess what, I’m doing that.
I only put my heating on for half an hour in the morning
and half an hour at night.
The rest of the time I am keeping warm the best way I can.
It sounds like you’re pretty resourceful.
You’ve got to be.
Like you said, I’m at the food bank at the moment and I’ve been
volunteering and I’ve just been taken
on in a paid capacity for 15 hours a week which I’m really enjoying.
It gets me out of the house.
I’m not using my heating.
It is good at the moment.
Am I right in thinking you are on Universal Credit
and impacted by the cut in that?
Oh, yes, massively, massively.
Basically, it boils down to I was down about £22
a week for food a week.
—— it boils down I would have £22
-- it boils down I would have £22 for food
—— it boils down I would have £22 for food and toiletries a week for
for food and hilatries a week for what I
for food and toiletries a week for what I need.
I am lucky.
I’ve got a really good network of family and friends around me.
They will not see me go hungry or cold.
But it’s the poor people that you see coming to the food bank
and hearing what they are going through and they are going
through really bad and hard times.
Mothers going to bed hungry because they fed
the children and not themselves.
Because they are worried about the heating,
coats and blankets on the beds.
m:
We are going back to the dark ages. As you say, they are going to keep
As you say, they are going to keep going up, how are people going to
going up, how are peopla going to survive?
going up, how are people going to survive? How are they going to
survive? How are they going to afford it?
That was Carol talking to me eartier.
That was Carol talking to me earlier. The one o’clock news will
eartier. The one o’clock news will be up soon. But
earlier. The one o’clock news will be up soon. But first it’s time for
be up soon. But first it’s time for the weather. Goodbye for me.
be up soon. But first it’s time for the weather. Goodbye for me.
m:
We have had a weather transformation to think about what sort of
to think about what sort of whether we prefer. This feel on the south
we prefer. This feel on the south coast of England shows there was
coast of England shows there was plenty
coast of England shows there was planty of
coast of England shows there was plenty of sunshine. Fast forward 2A
planty of sunshine. Fast forward 24 hours, same
plenty of sunshine. Fast forward 2A hours, same location, very different
hours, same location, very different weather. Cloudy and misty, but it is
weather. Cloudy and misty, but it is milder. What is going on? This area
milder. what is going on? This area of low pressure
milder. What is going on? This area of low pressure contains an old
of low pressure contains an old hurricane. It is missing us, but it
hurricane. It is missing us, but it is bringing in very mild air into
is bringing in very mild air into the UK. The warmer colours do not
the UK. The warmer colours do not translate into sunshine. There is a
translate into sunshine. There is a lot of cloud and moisture coming in.
lot of cloud and moisture coming in. There is a weather front right
There is a weather front right across us. It is milder as well, but
across us. It is milder as well, but we have got outbreaks of rain and
we have got outbreaks of rain and for several days to come because
for several days to come because the weather front will hang around.
weather front will hang around. There might be a few brighter breaks
There might be a few brighter breaks this afternoon. Northwest England
this afternoon. Northwest England and Northern and West Wales will
and Northern and West Walas will have
and Northern and West Wales will have some rain. The rest will be
have some rain. The rest will be dry. Mild across the board, but any
dry. Mild across the board, but any place that has some shine and
place that has some shine and we’ll see 22 Celsius. Not that...
see 22 Celsius. Not that... England and will have more clouds and clear
and will have more clouds and dear spells.
and will have more clouds and clear spells. Overnight temperatures which
spells. Overnight temperatures which are closer to where they should be
are closer to where they should be at this time of year. A very mild
at this time of year. A very mild start tomorrow, maybe record
start tomorrow, maybe record overnight temperatures. More rain at
overnight temperatures. More rain at times here to come. Fog will clear
times here to come. Fog will clear away, there will be lingering areas
away, there will be lingering areas of low cloud. The rest of England
of low cloud. The rest of England and well, overall it is looking like
and well, overall it is looking like a brighter day. More in the way of
a brighter day. More in the way of sunny spells and going to be warmer
sunny spells and going to be warmer as a result. Some spots the reaching
as a result. Some spots the reaching into the low 205. Over the weekend,
into the low 205. Over the weekend, the weather front finally will begin
the weather front finally will begin to clear my
the weather front finally will begin to clear way to the south. For parts
to clear my to the south. For parts of western
to clear way to the south. For parts of western Scotland could see
of western Scotland could see over 100 mm of rain with the risk
100 mm of rain with the risk of ﬂooding. As
100 mm of rain with the risk of flooding. As the weather front moves
ﬂooding. As the weather front moves to the south,
flooding. As the weather front moves to the south, there will be barely
to the south, there will be barely any rain left once it reaches across
any rain left once it reaches across England and. On Saturday, it
England and. On Saturday, it will pull away overnight and Sunday will
pull away overnight and Sunday will feed south into England and way.
feed south into England and way. What happens on that weather front
what happens on that weather front it we
What happens on that weather front it we start to introduce very cooler
it we start to introduce very cooler air again. It will be colder
air again. It will be colder nights with the risk of frost.
Higher energy costs could lead to higher prices in shops. A warning
higher prices in shops. A warning from business today. It comes as
from business today. It comes as household energy bills could rise by
household energy bills could rise by hundreds of pounds next year. I put
hundreds of pounds next year. I put my heating on for half an hour in
my heating on for half an hour in the morning and half an hour at
the morning and half an hour at night. The rest of the time I am
night. The rest of the time I am keeping one the best way I can.
We look at what’s behind the big energy price increases.
Prince Andrew is granted access to a sealed document his lawyers say
could end the sexual abuse case being brought by Virginia Giuffre.
20 years since US airstrikes began against Al-Qaeda
after the 9/11 attacks, we hear about the impact of the long
conflict on Afghans.
The Queen launches the baton relay for next year’s Commonwealth Games
that will take place in Birmingham.
Newcastle United Football Club could soon be in the hands
of a Saudi—backed group.
Human rights groups raise concerns about the takeover.
And coming up on the BBC News Channel, England all—rounder
Ben Stokes is unlikely to play in the Ashes in Australia this
winter after undergoing a second operation on an injured finger.
Good afternoon and welcome to the News at One.
Businesses and analysts are warning that the sharp rise in energy prices
will lead to households paying more for bills and everyday products.
The boss of supermarket Iceland said price rises were now inevitable,
and consultants Cornwall Insights warned the annual energy price cap
could rise by £400 in spring.
The business secretary has said UK gas supplies would be
sufficient this winter, but acknowledged that more
energy firms would fold in the coming months.
Kwasi Kwarteng told energy providers that developing renewable sources
will be the only way to protect against soaring gas prices
long—term, as our personal finance correspondent Kevin Peachey reports.
Just like the season’s weather, bill payers are being warned
the worst is yet to come.
A host of energy companies have collapsed in recent
weeks.
Their customers — moved to a new supplier —
are already having
to pay hundreds of pounds more a year than they expected.
A price cap does protect millions of people from extreme rises
in bills but analysts say next year they will still face a bill shock.
For many, it is a worry, finding the money to cover it.
I always said that if you had to walk around your house
wearing a cardigan, there was something wrong.
And guess what, I’m going around the house with a cardigan
on because I only put my heating on for half an hour in the morning
to take the chill away and half an hour at night.
The rest of the time I’m keeping warm the best way I can.
Under the price cap, a customer now pays £1277 a year
if they use an average amount of gas and electricity.
Analysts expect that typical bill to rise to £1600 when a revised
but as yet undecided cap starts in April.
Compare that with a year ago, when you could have got a deal
costing just over £850 a year.
As the global economy has been switched back
on after the height of the pandemic, the scramble for gas has not been
matched by supply, leading to an unprecedented seven fold rise
in wholesale prices.
Producers of everything from toilet roll to steel say that will feed
through to higher prices in the shops.
Domestic customers may be predicted from some of this
volatility, but industry isn’t.
Today, the Business Secretary told an energy industry conference that
a renewed commitment to renewable energy generation in the UK
was the only long—term solution.
The recent issues that we have with the volatility of the gas
price, incredible spikes and then falling back, it creates
uncertainty in the market.
I think that shows exactly why we need vigorously
to pursue our climate goals.
With fresh warnings that council tax is also likely to rise sharply,
everyone will need to brace and budget for a squeeze
on theirfinances.
Kevin Peachey, BBC News.
Yesterday President Putin said Russia would increase gas supplies
Russia would increase gas supplies to Europe which did bring the price
to Europe which did bring the price of wholesale gas down slightly. How
of wholesala gas down slightly. How has
of wholesale gas down slightly. How has that noose been received,
has that noose been received, jessira? You
has that noose been received, Jessica? You only need to look at
jessira? You only need to look at the impact of
Jessica? You only need to look at the impact of President Putin’s
the impact of President Putin’s comments to see the power he seems
comments to see the power he seems to have, energy prices in Europe is
to have, energy prices in Europe is a huge issue. Prices have

Citation: BBC News, 10:00 07/10/2021, BBC News 24, 180 mins. https://learningonscreen.ac.uk/ondemand/index.php/prog/1890ED60?bcast=135407083 (Accessed 31 Dec 2025)