the prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
as i say, i hope, we all do, that he has a speedy recovery and he gets back to number 10 and can take charge in the way he would want to.
express our nation’s well wishes to prime minister borisjohnson as he wages his own personal fight with the virus.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
refuge says the national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests for help since the lockdown began.
she says the will suceed in its fight against the coronavirus.
a tiger — and six other big cats — at the bronx zoo in new york test positive for the coronavirus.
the prime minister borisjohnson has spent the night in hospital, where he was admitted for tests, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
downing street says it’s a precautionary step as the prime minister continues to show persistent of the virus.
he remains in charge of the government but the foreign secretary dominic raab will chair this morning’s coronavirus meeting.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being criticised for visiting her second home twice, against her own lockdown advice.
the first minister nicola sturgeon initially defended catherine calderwood before agreeing that the doctor’s behaviour risked undermining confidence in the government’s public health message.
the queen has said the "will succeed" in its fight again the pandemic, if people remain united and resolute.
in a rare address to the nation, the monarch thanked the public for following government rules to stay at home.
reports from japan say the government is preparing to declare a state of emergency as coronavirus cases continue to increase.
in tokyo, the number of cases has doubled over the past week to more than 1,000.
and a tiger — at a zoo in new york — has tested positive for covid—19.
it’s thought the four—year—old animal contracted the virus from a keeper but she’s expected to recover.
the man charged with leading the country’s response to this virus is experiencing the unpleasant reality of it.
it was a week last friday that we heard the prime minister had coronavirus.
hi, folks, i want to bring you up to speed with something that’s happening today, which is that i have developed mild of the coronavirus, that’s to say a temperature and a persistent cough.
and on the advice of the chief medical officer, i have taken a test, that has come out positive, so i am working from home.
number 10 made it clear borisjohnson would continue to work this remotely from his downing street flat, and he chaired what he described as the first ever digital cabinet meeting from self—isolation.
last thursday night, he joined millions of others in expressing his gratitude to those working in the health service.
although i’m feeling better and i’ve done my seven days of isolation, alas, i still have one of the symptoms, a minor symptom, i still have a temperature so in accordance with government advice, i must continue my self—isolation until that itself goes.
i want to express our nation’s well wishes to prime minister borisjohnson as he wages his own personal fight with the virus.
all americans are praying for him, he’s a friend of mine, he’s a great gentlemen, and a great leader, and as you know, he was brought to the hospital today.
borisjohnson has spent the night not here, but in hospital.
his officials are adamant he is still leading the government’s response to the pandemic.
but this virus is crippling the economy, robbing us of our usual liberties and straining the personal capacity of the prime minister to respond to it on our behalf.
it must be hard for boris johnson to the government from his hospital bed.
ybody who as had a coronavirus, peopla talked out being wiped out, otentially that could be what is pening with the prime minister.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being caught visiting her second home — in breach of her own social distancing guidance.
this is a vital update about coronavirus.
to help save lives, stay at home.
catherine calderwood will no longer front the public campaign against coronavirus.
she initially apologised, then resigned, saying during an uncomfortable media briefing yesterday, scotland’s first minister stood by her chief medical officer.
police scotland say that they have spoken to her and emphasised that the stay—at—home rules apply to everyone.
and as we enter a third week of lockdown, which has been observed by most, calderwood will step back.
it was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be the face of the public health advice campaign.
at this point in time the normal rules of politics or news management couldn’t be further from my mind.
i will boris johnson funding is from hospital?
the ion is how long is mrjohnson likely to be hospital.
today he is in hospital having the test.
and as i say, i hope, we all do, that he has a speedy recovery and he gets back to number 10 and can take charge in the way that he would want to as soon as possible.
i suspect that indicates how hard—hit been by this virus.
but you could see a more minent role, i guess, for michael and matt hancock who already ave been pretty central to our ponse to coronavirus because we facing huge decisions day by day of the severity of the in terms of the severity of the lockdown and in terms of our broader egy about how we emerge from his.
if his are ually getting worse than getting ter, then, the sorts of things would be happening in hospital, uld be having chest x—rays, possibly ’ scans of his lungs, a of blood tests, and people ould monitoring his vital observations, his pulse and thing rate and also quite likely is called the oxygen saturation what is rallad the oxygen saturation which is a marker of how well the are functioning in terms of etting oxygen into your blood.
even when you talk to people who ad it or believe they have had all people who have tested itive for it, even when they get the most high—profile like or persistent cough, ctually, the effect on the body ause your immune system has had fight this, you are knackered.
people ran be nder the weather for if not weeks after recovery rom this infection.
in the next few minutes we will talk to the sister of a nurse ied after testing positive for covid—19.
these are the first statistics which give a picture of the potential consequences of social distancing for abuse victims.
you must stay at home.
it’s been getting worse since the lockdown, as well.
new figures seen by the give a picture of the potential consequence of lockdown for victims.
but charities and campaigners have expressed concern that those in violent relationships could be at serious risk as the lockdown continues.
we have an epidemic in the with a pandemic on top.
last year, areema nasreen fulfilled a lifelong ambition of graduating from university to become a fully—qualified nurse at walsall manor hospital.
yesterday, the health secretary said three nurses have died so far duing this coronavirus outbreak.
if you are to be ill go to the hospital, she was with hem all night.
and when she found out this was all ening, the shortage of staff, he booked bank shift at walsall or hospital.
me at walsall manor hospital, she applied for the housekeeping she applied through the job, she applied through the newspaper.
last april, when he graduated, she , thank you she graduated, she said, thank you to walsall manor hospital for eving in me.
the hospital has been mazing oughout her urney, my ourney, throughout her journey, my journey, and the support that we have had.
hospital, they believed in her.
onder if the grieving process has even more difficult because family and friends are not able to together obvious reasons, come together for obvious reasons, full social distancing reasons.
the queen has given a message of reassurance to britain and the commonwealth, urging people to remain united and resolute in the face of the coronavirus pandemic.
in a rare televised address from windsor castle, she paid tribute to the and key workers and urged people to take comfort in the fact that better days would return.
but we ded to have unity in our eparation, we need to have unity come together to stay apart to stop this virus from spreading.
it was a positive message.
it was an upbeat distancing hard.
didn’t talk about the battle ainst coronavirus and fighting it, nstead poke about calm and instead she spoke about and disciplined, , quiet, good resolve.
i agree she was positive in her message, like i said ending with "we will meet n".
so i felt she was aking as a human being xperiencing the same difficulties re so it was a positive and as we are so it was a positive and uplifting message for the whole to take on board.
a tiger at a zoo in new york has tested positive for the coronavirus.
the four—year—old female, named nadia, is thought to have contracted the virus from a keeper at the bronx zoo, who didn’t have any symptoms.
it’s believed to be the first known case of an animal infected by a human with covid—19.
the headlines: the prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
domestic violence charity refuge says the national domestic abuse helpline has seen a 25% increase in cells and online requests for help since the lockdown began.
she says the will suceed in its fight against the coronavirus.
care homes in britain say they’re at risk of becoming overwhelmed if covid—19 cases continue to spread through their homes.
it comes after at least 13 residents at a care home in glasgow died after a suspected coronavirus outbreak.
the country’s biggest charitable care provider, , has confirmed suspected cases in over half of its facilities.
let’s talk now to sam monaghan, of , who says in their 220 homes one in ten staff are now unable to work because of the virus.
sam monaghan, how desperate is the ation becoming in care homes?
there is in he equipment and the testing to sure we don’t have spread of oronavirus.
i wonder how many ents in your 220 homes have residents in your 220 homes have of covid—19 or have tested ive, if hey have been able to get a test for covid—19?
yes, we had 3 residents who have sadly died and we have 80 people who have but haven’t been able to died but we haven’t been able to confirm whether that has been the of the virus but there have been strong suspicions it has.
we currently have 43 residents who have positive for covid—19 but we have nother 346 who are not nfirmed.
sadly, last week we lost one of our staff ers and we have another staff member in hospital at the moment.
how has that been since ocial distancing guidelines were brought in, edith?
well, i mean there are a few changes, so of regular care schedule was my kind of regular care schedule was stretched and altered and different coming because obviously some peopla coming because obviously some carers were going into isolation and off sick and couldn’t risk oming.
ifelt yes, ijust felt like there no point me social distancing staying on lockdown when i had big risk of front line workers coming into my home, and i think i found it quite anxious
and sam monaghan, thank you for telling us about the ation in your care homes.
says is the he has run all he says is the boss he has all the suppliers and the government ine and still cannot get personal protective equipment for working in care homes with peopla working in rare homes with many elderty people.
you may remember last week we spoke to ann andrew who runs four small care homes in and stockport.
our wholesale business booker is better set up to meet the needs of customers with larger orders for their businesses, and booker has been in touch with arm to set up accounts for her care homes.
with me to answer some of the questions you’ve been sending in on coronavirus is bharat pankhania.
how can speak to a during this pandemic?
keep it ean because clearly it is a conduit picking up infection rom somewhere onto the phone, onto mouth.
that is very your distance away from your mum because you are bringing ential infection the strategy are some way off and one would hope borisjohnson would be ecovered by then.
if his are getting than getting better, the sorts worse than getting better, the sorts of things that would be happening in tal, he would have chest hospital, he would have chest x-rays, possibly a scan of his s, a range of ood tests, and lungs, a range of blood tests, and peopla would be monitoring his vital rvations, his pulse and observations, his pulse and breathing rate, and also, quite ly, what is called the oxygen turation which is a marker how the lungs are functioning in of getting oxygen into your lood.
the president also predicted that the is nearing the peak of the outbreak, saying he could see light at the end of the tunnel.
new york city, still the epicentre of the corona —— coronavirus outbreak in america.
as the death toll rises and officials warn they are running out of equipment, the country braces for a major escalation of the pandemic.
latest figures suggests the rate of new infections in new york is slowing down, although officials say it is too early to say whether the fall in cases is significa nt.
and you can never be happy when so many people are dying, but we will be proud of the job we did to keep the death down to an absolute minimum, the least it could have happened, with this terrible, terrible virus.
trump praised officials in california where the virus is spreading more slowly than the country’s other hotspots.
the state was one of the first to introduce social distancing and stay at home orders.
one of the president’s senior advisors said data from italy and spain, where fewer people are dying, could be a sign of how the outbreak is going to progress in the .
we are very hopeful over the next week, although we will see a rising number of cases of people who lose their lives to this illness, we also hope to see a stablisation of cases across the large metro areas where the outbreak began several weeks ago.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being caught visiting her second home, in breach of her own social distancing guidance.
this is a vital update about coronavirus.
to help save lives, stay at home.
catherine calderwood will no longer front the public campaign against coronavirus.
she initially apologised, then resigned, saying during an uncomfortable media briefing yesterday, scotland’s first minister stood by her chief medical officer.
police scotland say that they have spoken to her and emphasised that the stay—at—home rules apply to everyone.
and as we enter a third week of lockdown, which has been observed by most, calderwood will step back.
it was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be the face of the public health advice campaign.
at this point in time the normal rules of politics or news management couldn’t be further from my mind.
the headlines on news: the prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases in south korea has decreased to below 50, its lowest daily number since the outbreak peaked in february.
the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases in south korea has decreased to below 50, its lowest daily number since the outbreak peaked in february.
south korea has been widely praised for its approach to tracing and testing for cases of covid—19 but is warning against complacency.
we now have 47 newly—confirmed cases within the last 2a hours, 16 of whom are overseas arrivals, in fact, within the last two weeks, over half of all the cases that have been confirmed here in south korea are people returning home from the likes of europe, the and canada.
you must remember, there has been no lockdown here in south korea.
they advised people to work from home where possible which people have been doing.
they advised people to wear masks, to stay socially distanced, two metres apart, and most people have been doing that, however, there have been slight breaking of the rules over the weekend as the beautiful spring weather arrived.
so, the government has advised people to maintain the social distancing measures for just another two weeks if they ran.
this follows mixed advice from global authorities on the effectiveness of wearing a mask to limit the spread of covid—19.
but, a study has now found the distance that particles can spread through coughing and sneezing is further than previously thought, and indicated that wearing a mask could be beneficial to protect others.
is not that we do not advise it, ay do not use medical masks cause there is a severe shortage medical mask and we need those health care workers at high risk exposure because of the of exposure some because of the procedures you need to do to save will increase the amount of rus in the atmosphere.
we do say you wish to wear a mask that is ne, but do not use a medical mask, other kinds of face barriers.
wearing a mask, is it to protect you peopla from you?
we are getting increasing evidence people may have mild toms they may not even be aware hey actually have the virus that have a lot of virus in their oat and nose.
uch further forward, how far a cough or eeze travel?
if coughs and sneezes are velling further, it would sound it is sensible to wear a mask.
margaret, something else in the , to do with the tiger in the onx zoo in new york which has parently reportedly been infected ookeeper who was not showing symptoms.
and the tiger by the way is expected to make a full recovery.
the coronavirus pandemic is a huge blow to economies across the world.
are likely to be hardest hit financially by the lockdown.
question is ther they go back to those whether they ran go back to those jobs when this virus outbreak is , whether business can just pick over, whether business ran just pick up.
like all retailers now struggling, —— what the pandemic has undertined is those already on shaky dations are finding it even tougher than they would have.
these restrictions on esses only coming into force of he month so it suggests the start he month wasn’t great either, nsumer confidence down, fewer of prepared to put our hands in our ckets.
in a televised address from windsor castle, the queen has paid tribute to the and key workers, keeping goods and services going amid the coronavirus pandemic.
the headlines: the british prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
it’s better news for south korea as the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases falls to its lowest level since the peak of the outbreak.
and a tiger and six other big cats at the bronx zoo in new york test positive for the coronavirus.
last year, areema nasreen fulfilled a lifelong ambition of graduating from university to become at walsall manor hospital.
yesterday the health secretary said three nurses have died so far duing this coronoavirus outbreak.
we took them to the hospital, she was with them all night.
i spent five hours with her before she went on the ventilator.
everyone has totally erent symptoms.
then she found out this was happening and the tage of staff, she booked a bank hift at the walsall manor hospital.
turkey has one of the fastest growing outbreaks of covid—19, with a steeper rise in cases than italy, spain or the .
more restrictions on movement have been introduced, but a full lockdown is not in place.
over 27,000 cases have been confirmed, and 574 people have died.
the latest stage of turkey’s fight against the virus.
his city has the highest number of cases.
he told me there should be a general lockdown before it’s too late.
here, as elsewhere, the virus is killing those trying to save others like dilek, whose relatives shared this video with us.
turkey’s death toll is still in the hundreds, not thousands, but its corona outbreak is one of the fastest growing in the world.
this turkish molecular biologist, based in the , is tracking the virus in his homeland.
the cases are increasing very rapidly — much more rapid than many countries, including italy, spain and the and china — so this is very alarming.
as the virus spreads, many of istanbul’s storied streets have fallen silent.
there is a warning of a global surge in domestic violence due to the covid—19 restrictions.
the secretary general is appealing for the prevention of violence against women, to be made a key part of the world’s response to the pandemic.
you must stay at home.
it’s been getting worse since the lockdown, as well.
new figures seen by the give a picture of the potential consequence of lockdown for victims.
but charities and campaigners have expressed concern that those in violent relationships could be at serious risk as the lockdown continues.
we have an epidemic in the with a pandemic on top.
the rate of infection in italy may be showing promising signs of stabilising, but authorities are nervous about anything that could lead to a new outbreak.
last week, they sealed off an entire villagejust outside rome — all its residents included — after a cluster of cases was discovered.
we are in quarantine.
the town was sealed off after 77 cases of coronavirus were discovered here last week.
the virus started in a care home and spread quickly, without doctors realising.
the rest were taken to hospital.
: "i’m feeling well, i don’t have a fever.
to quarantine an entire village is unusual.
now the village is being turned into a human coronavirus laboratory.
the researchers are trying to work out exactly how the virus spread through a community and how many people display symptoms, and then they will trial possible treatments.
this tiny microcosm may well provide significant answers on how this virus lives and dies.
the organisation for economic coordination and development, a of countries brought together to stimulate economic progress and trade, has revised down growth forecasts and warned countries will ling with the economic fallout be dealing with the economic fallout of coronavirus for years to come.
that is a false ilamma because the sooner we deal the virus itself, the faster we out of he economic can get out of the economic consequences and it will be less nsive.
you deal the virus, you deal with the nemy, and then to the extent that because of confinement efforts, because of isolation efforts, you duce the time that it takes.
then you have the her problem which is the recovery forward.
he may well be tching from his hospital bed.
clearly there is a lot to do, and best wishes to prime minister boris on who in hospital having precautionary tests after he loped covid—19 about ten ago and hen had a test which proved positive, but persistent toms hanging around so that’s he has been taken into hospital.
the number of covid—19 cases injapan began to grow rapidly last week.
in tokyo there are now over a thousand confirmed cases, more than double the number a week ago.
the number deaths in france has topped the 8,000 mark, as previously undisclosed fatalities in care homes are ken into account.
but the rate of infection is slowing.
ay at home whenever you can, stay at home whenever you ran, don’t go out on the streets with fam.
the british prime minister has spent the night in hospital, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
scotland’s chief medical officer resigns after making two trips to her second home during the lockdown.
it was clear yesterday she couldn’t continue to be the face of the public health advice campaign.
but it’s better news for south korea — as the number of newly confirmed coronavirus cases falls to its lowest level since the peak of the outbreak.
and a tiger — and six other big cats — at the bronx zoo in new york test positive for the coronavirus.
we’re covering all the latest coronavirus developments here in britain and globally.
first, the ’s prime minister borisjohnson has spent the night in hospital, where he was admitted for tests, ten days after being diagnosed with coronavirus.
downing street says it’s a precautionary step as borisjohnson continues to show persistent of the virus.
he remains in charge of the government but the ’s foreign secretary dominic raab chaired this morning’s coronavirus meeting.
scotland’s chief medical officer has resigned after being criticised for visiting her second home twice, against her own lockdown advice.
scotland’s first minister, nicola sturgeon, initially defended catherine calderwood, before agreeing that the doctor’s behaviour risked undermining confidence in the government’s public health message.
elsewhere in the world, the has had more than 9 thousand 600 deaths confirmed.
the country’s surgeon general warned people that the coming week will be their ‘pearl harbor’ or ‘9/11’ moment with deaths from covid—19 expected to peak.
dollars as new infections from the virus spike in tokyo.
spain’s health ministry says that deaths have gone down for the fourth cutive day.
and austria has announced plans to ease some coronavirus restrictions, as many countries consider how to move on from lockdowns to a new phase in fighting the pandemic.
the man charged with leading the country’s response to this virus is experiencing the unpleasant reality of it.
it was a week last friday that we heard the prime minister had coronavirus.
hi, folks, i want to bring you up to speed with something that’s happening today, which is that i have developed mild of the coronavirus, that’s to say a temperature and a persistent cough.
and on the advice of the chief medical officer, i have taken a test, that has come out positive, so i am working from home.
number 10 made it clear borisjohnson would continue to work remotely from his downing street flat, and he chaired what he described as the first ever digital cabinet meeting from self isolation.
last thursday night, he joined millions of others in expressing his gratitude to those working in the health service.
