is it experience in foreign policy, the ability to come up with actions on russia and china, the ability to also help manage the pandemic?
biden has been relatively silent, broadcasting from his basement in delaware because of the coronavirus crisis.
and a wild card really is the coronavirus.
if a vaccine were to be found effective between now and then, that could also just throw the race into completely new territory with president trump claiming victory on that.
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections.
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
south africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country on the continent.
mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
that is at least half of all the confirmed coronavirus cases on the continent.
nurses are testing positive as well, and it’s a mess.
our facilities and our hospitals — covid—19 cases are all over the place.
there is no ward which doesn’t have a covid—19 person.
so how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
south africa imposed a strict lockdown in april and may that slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual reopening in june.
despite that, cases have surged, the president pointing out however that
but that is of little consolation to south africans, with some saying the pandemic has exposed shortcomings in its health system.
the cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus, are getting bigger every day.
it was not ready for this virus.
the country has tested over 3 million people and brought in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of the coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
rates of infection in germany remain low, but health officials there have expressed great concern over an uptick in cases in the country.
spain is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings.
there’s been an average of 1,000 cases here this week — that’s ten times more than this time a month ago.
and across europe too, well, if you look at france, for example, double the number of cases compared to this time last month, germany too.
but belgium — five times the number of cases compared to a month ago.
in germany, as of next week, they are going to make it mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk to have a covid test.
now, here in majorca, there have been fewer cases, around 27 covid cases a day.
but there’s been the first confirmed case of tourists being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased, as one person out of a party of ten, currently close by here in palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
let’s get some of the day’s other coronavirus news: the australian state of victoria is expected to introduce new lockdown measures, tougher than any seen in the country before.
the restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next week, are likely to see all shops forced to shut apart from supermarkets and service stations.
it is reported there will also be tighter restrictions on individuals’ movements.
thousands of people have taken to the streets in germany’s capital, berlin, to protest against the country’s coronavirus restrictions.
demonstrators say the measures, including wearing facemasks, violate their rights and freedoms.
germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic than other european countries, but cases are starting to rise again.
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass vaccination campaign against coronavirus in october, according to the country’s health minister.
on friday, the leading infectious disease expert in the , anthony fauci, said he hoped that russia and china were "actually testing their vaccines" before administering them to anyone.
one russian vaccine is being devised on by the moscow—based gamaleya institute and the second by the vektor state laboratory in siberia.
a third vaccine from can—sino biologics is being used to immunise the military.
three western coronavirus vaccines are in final phase three trials.
rishi desai is the chief medical officer for the healthcare education platform osmosis and a former epidemic intelligence officer with the center for disease control.
what do you these claims in russia, make of these claims in russia, let’s start there, that this ine could be out and vaccine could be out and administered by october.
phase two also in umans, what size dose and the phase, what is the ility for this to work well.
give us a our of the timescales involved in testing for safety?
ure some people thinking i’m sure some peopla thinking would think 0k we can test and here no immediate reaction, great
the election has been delayed twice due to the coronavirus pandemic, meaning campaigning has lasted months.
the election is happening amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
sri lanka has managed to contain the outbreak, with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
the entire world is new subject to covid—19 infection.
sri lanka’s economy has been battered by the covid—19 crisis.
arsenal’s captain pierre—emerick aubameyang who scored both his team’s goals — lifted the trophy in front of a stadium of 90—thousand empty seats, because of coronavirus restrictions.
more than 500,000 coronavirus have been confirmed in south africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
it also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
spain in particular is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings, most notably from the .
response to coronavirus with infectious disease chief anthony fauci, as cases continue to rise across the country.
he’s the most famous doctor in america, and as head of america’s institute of allergy and infectious diseases since 1984, anthony fauci has advised six different american presidents on everything from ebola to .
since the beginning of the year, he has been in the thick of a new battle against coronavirus.
for americans, he has become a trusted presence behind the podium at white house covid—19 briefings.
but as a struggles to contain the pandemic, six months after its first known case, tensions have been rising between fauci and the president.
fauci has criticised the president’s response on a number of occasions, pushed back on the president’s claims that the outbreak is improving, and attributing hasty state reopening is to the recent surges.
the move to undercut him comes as the continues to see surges in covid—19.
according tojohn hopkins university, there are well over 4 million cases confirmed, and more than 150,000 americans have died.
fauci, we’re now about five months into this pandemic in the united states.
i would have hoped that once we had the initial surge under control — as you recall we were particularly hard hit in the new york metropolitan area — that we would have come down to a baseline that is really a low baseline, namely hundreds to, you know, a few hundred cases a day.
we had the big surge, then it came down, but it plateaued at a level of about 20,000 cases per day for several weeks in a row into may and june.
and then injuly, with the attempts in some southern states to open up again, namely open up the economy, we had surges of cases that is really quite unfortunate.
and that’s not what i would have predicted or liked to see, because we went from a baseline of about 20,000 cases a day up to 30, 40, 50, 60, and a couple of weeks ago we even hit 70 new cases a day.
in the united states, right from the beginning, we shuts down only by about 50%, even though it was a lot of inconvenience and a lot of very, very important negative effects on the economy and employment.
and then the other aspect of it is that when we reopened, in the sense of, you know, we put out these guidelines for opening america again, and they were well thought out guidelines which had several checkpoints.
in other words, you had to have a diminution of cases before you could move to phase one, and then phase two, and then phase three.
how frustrating was that, as you were trying to manage the pandemic?
well, it was quite frustrating, katty, because i was getting on the media and and radio virtually pleading, particularly with the young people, because the recent resurgences that we’ve seen, if you look at the average age of the people in that, it’s about a decade to a decade and a half younger than what we were seeing earlier on in the outbreak.
it became really quite frustrating, because it became predictable what would happen if people did not adhere to the guidelines.
as we get up and say, you know, that’s the reason i’m trying to do a lot of outreach, not onlyjust me but many of my public health colleagues who are out there talking to the populace, explaining to them that there are really four or five simple things that we know from experience can turn things around.
universal wearing of masks, physical distancing, six feet or more, avoiding crowds, avoiding bars, and if the states and the regions and the counties go along with it, closing bars if necessary, and physical hand hygiene such as washing your hands.
i just wonder what makes you think that — you’ve been preaching this message, doctor, for the last few months and people are not doing it, and i wonder whether you actually would like to see much stricter enforcement of the rules.
for example, here in washington, , there is now as of this week a $1,000 fine, potentially, if you don’t wear a mask on the street.
does there need to be stricter regulation as there was during the lockdown is in europe?
i hope that when we strongly, strongly recommend that, that peopla will adhere to it and there will be lessons learned from what we have experienced over the past few weeks with the surging of cases in the southern states.
so if i wear a mask, does it protect me in any way, as well as stopping me spreading the virus if i have it?
originally, the data was showing that if you wear a mask, it prevents you from infecting someone else.
but, since we know now that about 20—a5% of the cases are asymptomatic, and that clearly people who are without are transmitting the infection to others, that the recommendation of universal wearing of masks is more geared towards having people who don’t know that they’re infected from spreading the infection to others.
we don’t know the exact percentage, but clearly there’s a degree of protection, of protecting yourself from others, when you wear a mask.
and the benefit would be that i’m less likely to get it if i’m wearing a mask, or that the severity of the disease if i did get it would be diminished because i was wearing a mask.
there’s a discussion about the size of the inoculum, and what impact that has on you getting infected and what the course of the infection is, but there’s not enough data.
the only data that we do know is that it protects from infection.
when the president, as he did again yesterday, retweets things from people who say you don’t need to wear a mask, how unhelpful is that from a medical perspective?
but what i can say is what i have said all along — that the overwhelming body of data from trials that were well run, randomised, placebo—controlled trials, indicate that is not effective in treating coronavirus disease or covid—19.
and i wonder whether, just in terms of your ability to fight this pandemic, your effectiveness in fighting this pandemic, you do actually need to call out the president and the country’s leaders when they say things that are unhelpful, and potentially set the country back?
we should have universal wearing of masks, and the scientific data to this point, this might change with other studies, but the scientific data up to this point indicate that the use of for the treatment of covid—19 is not effective.
and just to put this on the record, have you misled the american public during your advice during this pandemic?
no, categorically, i have not misled the american public during this outbreak.
you’ve said before, fauci, that during the course of your career you have spent decades preparing for this possibility of a pandemic like covid—19.
we’ve seen that in almost every outbreak, but it had been minor and didn’t impact what we were doing with regard to response, but i think it’s no secret from looking at the situation in the united states that there is a considerable degree of political divisiveness to a level that everyone admits, you don’t need me to make that declaration.
eems to have effectively managed the reopening process.
when it started reopening a couple of months ago, things went well.
it has to do with what i was saying just a few minutes ago when we were talking about the situation in some places in the united states where people essentially skipped over the guidelines.
in europe, they do have guidelines about safely reopening.
there was enough stress and strain, not only on our populations, both in europe, the and here in the united states, but also the effect that it had on the economy and unemployment and other types of unintended consequences of lockdown.
i commented that i hope we would not have to go to a complete lockdown and what we might do is at least have a pause in our progression to reopening and maybe even take a step back.
in other words, if you are in phase two and you are getting into trouble, you might want to push back or pull back to phase one and then restart the process of careful, prudent, step—by—step reopening because no one wants to go back to a complete lockdown again.
is it possible to combat this virus when you open up borders and allow people some freedom of movement?
anyone who thinks this is easy is really not doing a lot of reality testing.
it is a very difficult situation and we’ve got to do the best we can and we believe that if we do this kind of opening and reopening prudently, then we have enough testing to go around to make sure that we can do the appropriate and adequate identification, isolation and contact tracing.
we’ve learned from painful experience that if you have a low level of cases and you have the adequate facilities and capabilities of testing, when you get blips of new infection, you can adequately identify, isolate and contact trace.
once you get to a level where there is community spread, particularly given the fact that a significant proportion of cases are without and spread occurs without symptoms, then things start to ratchet up and get out of control.
i believe in order to do that, we are going to need a safe and effective vaccine to complement the public health measures and that’s the reason the information that came out very recently where we started a phase three trial of a vaccine just a couple of days ago and multiple other candidates over the next few months will be beginning phase three trials to determine efficacy and additional safety of a vaccine.
with that timetable, we would hope, given the fact these trials are ongoing now, for example the one that started a couple of days ago was going to have 30,000 people in the trial, that in the next several months as we get into the late fall and early winter, we might have an answer to the safety and efficacy of vaccine trials and i feel cautiously optimistic.
there is a medical report from the centre for american progress this week in the united states that is very concerned about the production and distribution of the vaccine, even suggesting that it could take up to two years for americans to actually get the vaccine so it’s great the research is producing these positive results now
and i know you’ve said that we could be getting some good news from that in the autumn or in the winter, but, realistically, how long is it going to be before i can get a vaccine?
you’ll probably get one pretty quickly but before most americans can get a vaccine.
what’s being done now with the production of vaccine to have doses available that the united states government has invested billions of dollars, hundreds of millions and billions of dollars to start producing vaccine at risk.
eans you are starting to make the doses before you even have proven that the vaccine works.
which means that if the vaccine does work, you’ve saved many months.
if the vaccine doesn’t work, the risk is you’ve lost a lot of money.
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections — that’s the fifth highest in the world.
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
south africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country on the continent.
mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
the government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed infections in the country — that is at least half of all the coronavirus cases on the continent — and a third of them are in gauteng province, where hospitals like thelle mogoerane are struggling to cope, as this member of staff explains.
nurses are testing positive as well, and it’s a mess.
in ourfacilities and in our hospitals, covid—19 cases are all over the place.
there is no ward, by the way, that doesn’t have a covid—19 person.
so how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
south africa imposed a strict lockdown in april and may that slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual reopening in june.
despite that, cases have surged, the president pointing out however that: but that is of little consolation to south africans, with some saying the pandemic has exposed shortcomings in its health system.
the cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus, are getting bigger every day.
it was not ready for this virus.
the country has tested over 3 million people and brought in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
rates of infection in germany remain low, but health officials there have expressed "great concern" over an increase in cases in the country.
spain is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings.
there’s been an average of 1,000 cases here this week — that’s ten times more than this time a month ago.
and across europe too, well, if you look at france, for example, double the number of cases compared to this time last month, germany too.
but belgium — five times the number of cases compared to a month ago.
in germany, as of next week, they are going to make it mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk to have a covid test.
now, here in majorca, there have been fewer cases, around 27 covid cases a day.
but there’s been the first confirmed case of tourists being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased as one person out of a party of ten, currently close by here in palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
let’s get some of the day’s other coronavirus news.
the australian state of victoria is expected to introduce new lockdown measures, tougher than any seen in the country before.
the restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next week, are likely to force all shops to shut, apart from supermarkets and service stations.
victoria reported more than 650 infections on sunday, up from 397 cases the previous day.
thousands of people have taken to the streets in germany’s capital berlin to protest against the country’s coronavirus restrictions.
demonstrators say the measures including wearing face masks, violate their rights and freedoms.
germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic than other european countries, but cases are starting to rise again.
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections.
russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass vaccination campaign against coronavirus in october according to the country’s health minister.
on friday, the leading infectious disease expert in the , anthony fauci, said he hoped that russia and china were "actually testing their vaccines" before administering them to anyone.
one russian vaccine is being devised on by the moscow—based gamaleya institute, and the second by the vektor state laboratory in siberia.
a third vaccine from cansino biologics is being used to immunise the military.
three western coronavirus vaccines are in final phase three trials.
he’s also working on a coronavirus vaccine and i asked him what he made of russia saying it would start mass vaccinations in october.
first of the technical achievement of making a coronavirus vaccine ovid—19 is actually not that high a r.
it is kind of an udgement old school roblem in virology to get mething that induces higher els of virus reducing ntibody.
everyone assumes the bon ton of the virus with the spikes eliminating out and that at is involved in is what is involved in attaching to host tissues if ave high levels of you have high levels of antibody, you could potentially good vaccine as well as used in late other bits of the system.
there are many immune system.
it is ensuring there is adequate quality control so now what you are making and you ran make it the same every time, and that you dequately tested and rge—scale clinical trials to he vaccine actually works.
that is what ries me when the russians nnounced they are suddenly to make a vaccine and have it by october.
i am not so ied they can’t make vaccine.
others are saying hat it should be ready earlier elease to the public, and really depends on how good a cine it is, because you can have ccines that partially otect, mainly reduced everity of symptoms, which is ortant because it can prevent spitalisations.
hereas other vaccines will ually block infection and even potentially get herd unity as a consequence.
that important because some ccines will replace existing blic health control measures.
you ran already see it gets quite complex and eed a lot of carefully crafted public health saging, which unfortunately now is not coming out of he white house so that is an tional hurdle we are additional hurdla we are facing.
the election is happening amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
sri lanka has managed to contain the outbreak with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
the entire world is new subject to covid—19 infection.
sri lanka’s economy has been battered by the covid—19 crisis.
social distancing?
he then lifted the trophy in front of a stadium of 90,000 empty seats because of coronavirus restrictions.
more than 500,000 coronavirus cases have been confirmed in south africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
it also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
spain in particular is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings, most notably from the .
we wanted to find out how online inﬂuencers, the big personalities you see on social media, have been impacted during the pandemic.
but the pandemic had financially impacted a lot of these companies and so, we wanted to know if that meant that inﬂuencers had also been hit.
so just before the pandemic, a new trend was emerging of inﬂuencers moving into huge houses together, and these guys now live in a $35 million estate in los angeles.
it’s meant to help them collaborate and constantly create new content to feed their hungry fans — something which has come in very handy during the pandemic.
what happens during the pandemic where people are home more, right?
we closed deals that were in the pipeline, and we developed new deals during the pandemic.
and we found out that many of them have struggled during the pandemic.
i have seen inﬂuencers taking on jobs that i wouldn’t necessarily see them taking on before the pandemic.
so since the pandemic began, we found we have received a really large quantity of e—mails from brands selling what i think is counterfeit goods and basically trying to get inﬂuencers to market these on their channels, and ijust believe that a lot of these brands are trying to exploit inﬂuencers during this time by offering them excessive amounts of money for very small deliverables.
but honestly i haven’t experienced anything like this until the pandemic.
so this didn’t happen to me before the pandemic
supply chain that perhaps otherwise would have been more readily detected if they were coming in perhaps in large quantities.
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections — that’s the fifth highest in the world.
across europe, several governments express concern about a resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases.
next, south africa has now registered more than 500,000 cases of coronavirus, making it by far the hardest—hit country on the continent.
mourning another life taken by coronavirus.
the government says there have been over 500,000 confirmed infections in the country — that is at least half of all the coronavirus cases on the continent — and a third of them are in gauteng province, where hospitals like thelle mogoerane are struggling to cope, as this member of staff explained.
nurses are testing positive as well, and it’s a mess.
in ourfacilities and in our hospitals, covid—19 cases are all over the place.
there is no ward, by the way, that doesn’t have a covid-19 person.
so how are we coping with the spread of the virus?
south africa imposed a strict lockdown in april and may that slowed the spread of the virus, but began a gradual reopening in june.
despite that, cases have surged, the president pointing out however that: but that is of little consolation —— out however that: but that is of little consolation to south africans, with some saying the pandemic has exposed shortcomings in its health system.
the cracks that have been there, even before coronavirus, are getting bigger every day.
it was not ready for this virus.
the country has tested over 3 million people and brought in an aggressive early lockdown, but that is no guarantee of success against this deadly virus.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
rates of infection in germany remain low, but health officials there have expressed "great concern" over an increase in cases in the country.
spain is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings.
there’s been an average of 1,000 cases here this week — that’s ten times more than this time a month ago.
and across europe too, well, if you look at france, for example, double the number of cases compared to this time last month — germany, too.
but belgium — five times the number of cases compared to a month ago.
in germany, as of next week, they are going to make it mandatory for travellers coming back from areas of high risk to have a covid test.
now, here in majorca, there have been fewer cases, around 27 covid cases a day.
but there’s been the first confirmed case of tourists being put in isolation since the lockdown was eased, as one person out of a party of ten, currently close by here in palma, are now in isolation in a hotel.
the australian state of victoria is expected to introduce new lockdown measures — tougher than any seen in the country before.
the restrictions, tipped to come into effect early next week, are likely to force all shops to shut, apart from supermarkets and service stations.
victoria reported more than 650 infections on sunday, up from 397 cases the previous day.
thousands of people have taken to the streets in germany’s capital berlin to protest against the country’s coronavirus restrictions.
demonstrators say the measures, including wearing face masks, violate their rights and freedoms.
germany has been less badly affected by the pandemic than other european countries, but cases are starting to rise again.
south africa records more than 500,000 virus infections — that’s the fifth highest in the world.
russian health authorities are preparing to start a mass vaccination campaign against coronavirus in october, according to the country’s health minister.
on friday, the leading virus expert in the , anthony fauci, said he hoped that russia — and china — were "actually testing their vaccines" before administering them to anyone.
one russian vaccine is being devised on by the moscow—based gamaleya institute and the second by the vektor state laboratory in siberia.
a third vaccine from cansino biologics is being used to immunise the military.
three western coronavirus vaccines are in final phase three trials.
he is a former epidemic intelligence officer with the centre for disease control.
i suggested to him that russia’s vaccine development is pretty quick.
yeah, to put it into perspective, to make a vaccine usually takes a decade and the world record, if you think of it as a race, the fastest we have done it is four or five years
phase two also in humans, what size dose, and the third phase, what is the ability for this to work well?
give us a flavour of the timescales involved in testing for safety?
i’m sure some people thinking would think 0k we can test and if there is no immediate reaction, great
how do we have enough time to test for safety?
50 money is pouring in, you’ve got researchers working together and sharing data and all this has been sped up in a really great way but, of course, you must still be cautious because if you are going to unroll this and have billions of people getting this vaccine you want to make sure that you have crossed your t’s and dotted your i’s and are doing it in a transparent way.
for more detail on where the world is in the race for a coronavirus vaccine, have a look at this article by our health correspondent james gallagher.
the election is happening amid the unprecedented coronavirus crisis.
sri lanka has managed to contain the outbreak with the deaths onlyjust into double figures.
the entire world is new subject to covid—19 infection.
sri lanka’s economy has been battered by the covid—19 crisis.
social distancing?
he then lifted the trophy in front of a stadium of 90,000 empty seats, because of coronavirus restrictions.
more than 500,000 coronavirus cases have been confirmed in south africa, along with over 8,000 deaths.
it also has the fifth—highest number of cases in the world.
several european governments have expressed concern about the resurgence of coronavirus cases in a number of countries, including belgium and france, where numbers appear to be heading upwards.
spain in particular is struggling with a surge of new infections that has sparked european travel warnings, most notably from the .
but first on news, a review of how parliament has tackled the coronavirus crisis, presented by david cornock.
the prime minister was almost one of them as the global pandemic landed too close to home.
65,000 people have lost their lives because of covid—19.
on a wednesday afternoon in late january, the health minister was summoned to the house of lords to answer an urgent question on what was described as the "wuhan novel coronavirus threat to citizens".
it was the first reference in parliament to what was to become a global pandemic that has cost tens of thousands of lives here in the , hundreds of thousands worldwide.
we are monitoring closely the development of this virus.
advice from public health england and the chief medical officer is that the risk to the is currently low.
the following day, her boss, the health secretary, came to a sparsely attended commons before social distancing restricted numbers, to tell that population from very low to low.
while there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise in this country, we are well prepared and well equipped to deal with them.
the is one of the first countries to have developed a world—leading test for the new coronavirus.
the world health organization has warned that countries are, quote, "simply not ready for a pandemic" and there has now been significant spread of the virus across the european continent.
italy, in particular, but other cases have been identified in austria, croatia and switzerland.
matt hancock updates became a regular feature of commons life as the virus spread.
the prime minister delivered his own public health message.
lockdown arrived ten days later.
our instruction is simple — stay at home.
to beat the virus.
home is now the frontline.
and peers soon got a taste of working from home themselves as parliament brought forward and extended its easter break, but not before rushing through what is now the coronavirus act, handing sweeping emergency powers to the police, local councils and the nations of the .
coronavirus is the most serious public health emergency that has faced the world in a century.
we are all targets, but the disease reserves its full cruelty for the weakest and the most vulnerable, and to defeat it, we are proposing extraordinary measures of a kind never seen before in peacetime.
but given that this bill gives unprecedented powers to the state to enforce isolation on people who have committed no crime for the first time in our history, will the secretary of state reassure the house that this house will be fully involved in renewing this once this crisis is over, and there won’t be any drift in this matter?
we have one acute hospital in inverness.
the prime minister almost died from coronavirus.
initially, borisjohnson had self—isolated in downing street after developing what he said were mild symptoms.
i want to bring you up to speed with something that is happening today, which is that i have developed mild of the coronavirus — that’s to say a temperature and a persistent cough.
and a few days later, he was rushed to hospital in central london, before being moved to intensive care, where he spent three nights.
i’ve been asked to respond on behalf of my right honourable friend the prime minister, and i am pleased to tell the house that he is making a good recovery and is in good spirits.
at question time each week, he challenged the prime minister over his handling of the pandemic, here over plans to track and trace those with the virus.
the prime minister risks making mistakes he made at the beginning of the pandemic, brushing aside challenge, dashing forward, not estimating properly the risks.
if two thirds of those with covid—19 are not being contacted, that is a big problem.
65,000 people have lost their lives because of covid—19.
that figure of 65,000 refers to excess deaths overall.
keir starmer pursued his argument at later question times, after the lockdown eased and the hairdressers reopened.
two months ago at pmqs, i highlighted the weaknesses of early guidance on care homes.
it was real—time for the frontline.
same on testing, and the decision to discharge —— same on routine testing, and the decision to discharge 20,000 people to care homes without tests was clearly a mistake.
and when he looks at the action plan that we brought in to help our care workers, i think he would appreciate the vast amount of work that they have done, the that they have been supplied with, the testing that they have been supplied with, that has helped them to get the incidence of the disease down to record lows.
rishi sunak had been chancellor for barely a month before he delivered his first budget in march, one dominated by the pandemic.
whatever extra resources our needs to cope with coronavirus, it will get.
so whether it’s research for a vaccine, recruiting thousands of returning staff or supporting our brilliant doctors and nurses, whether it’s millions of pounds or billions of pounds — whatever it needs, whatever it costs, we stand behind our .
we are going into this crisis with our public services on their knees, and as today’s figures confirm, with a fundamentally weak economy, which is now flatlining, with zero growth even before the impact of coronavirus.
in some cases, they are going to be desperately short of cash coming in through the door.
before the ink was on his budget, the chancellor was writing more cheques, spending hundreds of billions of pounds, including a furlough scheme that saw the government pay the wages of workers laid off due to the crisis.
i’m sure that the hospitality industry will welcome the measures that he has announced today, albeit that they are quite time—limited.
now, borisjohnson wasn’t the only senior government figure to contract coronavirus.
cummings was accused of breaking the rules by driving to north—east england mid—lockdown.
scotland’s chief medical officer, catherine calderwood, did resign after making two trips to her second home.
and neil ferguson, the scientist known as ‘professor lockdown’ in some newspapers, did resign as a government advisor after it emerged he’d been visited by his girlfriend during the lockdown.
professor ferguson was one of several scientists who became household names as their advice and analysis were seized on.
they were in demand from parliamentary committees, too, from the early days of the pandemic.
every year in seasonal flu, the number of deaths is thought to be about 8,000 excess deaths.
so, if we can get this down to numbers 20,000 and below, that’s a good outcome in terms of where we would hope to get to with this outbreak.
i mean, that’s still an enormous number of deaths, and it’s an enormous pressure on the health service.
that was mid—march, a week before lockdown.
by the end of april, more than 20,000 people had died from coronavirus.
politicians and scientists began asking if we’d locked down too late.
50, had we introduced lockdown measures a week earlier, we would have reduced ourfinal death toll by at least a half.
so, whilst i think the measures, given what we knew about this virus then, in terms of its transmission and its lethality, were warranted, i wouldn’t second—guess them at this point, certainly had we introduced them earlier, we would have seen many fewer deaths.
so, when it comes to the timing of the lockdown, are you content that the government followed your advice in terms of the staging of different elements of the lockdown?
and so i’m just asking you, on that crucial question of the timing of the lockdown, were they following your advice?
the ’s response to the pandemic is not the most admired in the world, if i can put it that way.
england, wales, scotland and northern ireland all entered lockdown together in march.
but, with different parties in charge of the lockdown rules in the four different nations, the began to look like a federal state.
in scotland, more people died from the virus in care homes than in hospitals.
mistakes were made at the start, and they have led to the excess deaths we see today.
first minister, in light of the tragedy in uddingston and others, do you agree that when it comes to testing in care homes that by any standards, this is a failure?
i deeply regret every single death from this virus, and i think all of us are in that position.
as the pressure grew to lift the lockdown, in northern ireland, the democratic unionist first minister and the sinn fein deputy first minister gave a rarejoint statement at stormont.
as of today, we remain subject to restrictions which no—one wants to last a day longer than is absolutely necessary.
these are measures we would not contemplate in normal times.
the differences between the four countries were most apparent as the lockdown was lifted, with scotland and wales more cautious than the government in england.
your careful approach in terms of easing of restrictions has served well in many ways but you know, i think, risk treading the line between being too cautious and too slow on this issue.
the scientists were sceptical.
this infection is not going away.
it’s now a human endemic infection and even actually if we have a vaccine or very good treatments, humanity will still be living with this virus for very many years to come.
the key objective remains to develop a vaccine.
are we going to have a vaccine for christmas?
this was a crisis that began with ministers and their advisers confident the risks to the was low but, six months later, saw borisjohnson admit his government hadn’t really understood the virus in its early days.
the prime minister now says there are very open questions about whether lives could have been saved by entering lockdown sooner.
with the death toll approaching 50,000, the families of those who’ve died from coronavirus will be looking for answers in the independent inquiry that will follow.
the paper 575 ays she eges the assaulted her, forced her to have sex and left traumatised she had to go to hospital and she has accused him of sexual assault and coercive rape, sexual assault and coercive behaviour.
