we’ll start with the most elderly, and with people in care homes, and of course their carers, to make sure that others don’t catch it.
the expects to have millions of doses of the pfizer vaccine against covid—19 available by the end of the year, and the first 800,000 coming next week.
england’s tier system has made a comeback but with toughened measures.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
chair a group that has been preparing ice on covid—19 vaccines.
this iefing has called briefing has been called to announce that the medicines and health care ducts ulatory agency products regulatory agency recommended to the government on sis of the advice on the the basis of the advice on the commission of human medicine is that uld have agreed to the pproval for use of the covid—19 cine eveloped by pfizer vaccine developed by pfizer biontech, together with the itions for its supply and use.
the ’s recommendation has been following an extremely thorough and scientifically rigorous of all the evidence, of review of all the evidence, of safety, of effectiveness and of the of the pfizer quality of the pfizer biontech vaccine.
the government has now ted this advice and has made the decision to approve the vaccine for use with some conditions.
in the first one, you see hat unlike the usual pattern of inical trials, which done one after the other, the velopment of this vaccine has been ted so that the trials are adapted so that the trials are overlapping and the next one can art ore a particular phase has start before a particular phase has finished.
so, looking the top downwards, the expert rking group started in the middle the year to look at how safety rveillance would be in place to us the highest possible level assurance of the safety of the vid—19 vaccine.
similarly, our ational itute for biological national institute for biological standards and control had been ing independently on testing batch by batch the quality of the ine.
then in october the vaccine.
so it’s very clear that parate teams have been working in rallel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine.
also reviewed and agreed to we have also reviewed and agreed to the prescribing information so : and health care professionals public and health rare professionals are very dear and can be very confident the vaccine is being sed in the correct way, derstanding what’s involved.
and forward from today, our national institute for biological ards and control will be standards and control will be independently laboratory testing so single vaccine that goes out every single vaccine that goes out meets the same high standards of and quality.
from we came to the conclusion that here was overwhelming benefit for articular vaccine and that its use should be authorised.
i just want to say a few things about ffectiveness of this vaccine.
he data show the vaccine is 95% ective.
it is effective in all roups that were given the vaccine hin the trial, irrespective of e, sex, race or country they lived .
we have been careful to look at the quality he vaccine, particularly given he for storing the vaccine at tralow temperatures, and we had sits from colleagues to tell what the deployment strategies re and we were able to advise them ell on the stability issues that may be important for deployment.
it is important we undertake surveillance wing the use of vaccines in the opulation and we were very keen to ommend that the undertakes tive surveillance of the vaccine it is used.
the committee also considered that no specific autions were required on inistration of this vaccine in opla who have already had covid—19 testing is required before eceiving the vaccine.
now i will to our other professor to tell us about the work of the joint ittee on vaccination and immunisation.
the committee on vaccination and nisation is an independent scientific advisory body.
we advise cretary of state on the provision of vaccination and nisation services.
include data on vaccine safety efficacy, but also how covid—19 pacted he .
this includes the impacts of covid—19 in care es, on ople from different homes, on people from different ethnic groups, as well as people in rent occupations.
we have also looked at mathematical that have helped us to models that have helped us to understand how different vaccine egies might be used.
every year, through the ant, childhood and adult vaccination programmes, millions of protected from serious us are protected from serious disease.
through the phase of he pandemic and the first phase of the pandemic and the vaccination programme, we are esting that vaccines are offered in order to protect people who are at of dying from covid—19, as well as protect health and cial care services, because by oing so we protect lives.
the first to offer vaccination according to the mated risk of dying from covid—19.
age by far the single important factor in terms of from covid—19.
the second and to he advice is regarding implementation of the vaccination amme.
on the next slide we will see the prioritisation order in of the offer of vaccination.
sidents in care homes for older dults care home workers are the highest orities.
they are wed by people who are aged 65 followed by people who are aged 65 years and above, and then ividuals who are aged 16—64 with rtying health conditions that also put them at risk from covid—19 ere those conditions are but where those conditions are not already represented in those itions putting someone at xtreme risk.
in phase hope that 90 — 99% of one we hope that 90 - 9996 of people at risk of dying rom covid—19 will ncluded or covered.
we advise that local providers, ral public teams and oral public health teams and oral leaders work together to address community needs and oral needs.
we also gnise there may be operational asons the prioritisation needs more flexible and this may to be more ﬂaxible and this may relate to vaccine characteristics or upply, or exceptional vaccine supply, or exceptional personal circumstances.
we have a vaccine that is acceptably safe and tive and good vaccine uptake.
the way of working on a rolling review ensures our of clinicians and scientists re working in parallel to complete work according to strict uidelines on safety, effectiveness uality is complete.
this vaccine has only been approved use those strict tests have been one and complied with.
can you explain me the a has been able to for me the has been able to authorise this vaccine so much than the european medic faster than the european medic -- european medicines agency and the drugs administration?
the vaccine requires two 21 days apart.
from the data at has been presented to us, ple will be immune seven days ter the second dose.
partial unity occurs after the first dose we can see some protection and we ran see some protection occurring after day 12 after the dose but full immunity is even days after the second dose.
this is historic ent and you have an historic moment and you have approved the vaccine in record time.
and a question for professor lim on the priority list, confirm care home residents ran you confirm rare home residents will indeed be the first to receive ccine, given how unstable it and tricky to move to care homes rare and rare home residents, or will staff he he first to receive it?
and therefore aimed at the most vulnerable eople, which are people in care homes.
her or not the vaccine itself ran be delivered to care is obviously an important int and there will be some exibility erms of operational flexibility in terms of operational constraints.
as you said, it is stored at -70 degrees we were able to ok at tability data, and at data is showing it is stable for a period of time, at 2—8, allows it to transported to the relevant vaccination sites.
“an i ask, ave you identified when, know know when the first vaccine ill be delivered, which day we can pect that?
will the highest levels might be given priority, he tier 3 areas with highest idence, and can i ask whether you also know onomic decisions have been factored in, that is to say, you get down the list of when you get down the list of priorities, will people who can’t home get the vaccine work from home get the vaccine before people who can work from e?
hese are helpful points that eryone wants to know, and i know colleagues in the department of alth and social care are working irelassly to sure that the first tirelessly to make sure that the first vaccine will be delivered as all the checks are soon as all the checks are completed.
everything is being at when for seven to enable this important public health step to in place as soon as possible, a minute wasted.
as far as i understand, the is working hard iver the vaccines as soon as possible, but that is not within the of the to pose any time remit of the jcvi to impose any time limits on vaccine delivery.
bear in that many thousands have lready had a vaccine as part of ical trials, so there is a clinical trials, so there is a continuum here, and our knowledge of benefits increases over time.
so perhaps it will seem to be a toric moment when the first erson after the approval of supply heir vaccine, but, munir, has their vaccine, but, sir munir, we see this very much as an ongoing ess.
so please help us to continue uild that body of knowledge to build that body of knowladge about about this important vaccine.
“an i just ask on the oint about whether hest risk tiers will be the ones get it first.
that intention of the is the intention of the prioritisation order, that the most rable people are offered vulnerable people are offered vaccination first.
do you egional tiers?
our mean regional tiers?
secondly, as i understand it, the vaccine that you uthorised, we have not ordered ufficient quantities to cover the a population.
i was wondering, we ave enough of this vaccine to through all the priority groups earlier on, or would we listed eartier on, or would we dependent on waiting for further ines to be authorised in order to get to the position where the country can be safe from this whola country ran be safe from this disease?
we have been able to orise the supply of this vaccine provisions under european law exist until the ist of january.
very good ion vaccine supply and question vaccine supply and availability.
the whole reason a rity listing equired is priority listing is required is because we expect during a pandemic accine supply will be limited that vaccine supply will be limited in the first instance and so ines should be offered in the irst instance to the most lnerable and then moving down the iority list.
this includes more than one vaccine type in order all the people who are at isk from vid—19.
what would simple ssage the to those who re suspicious of the vaccine, given we have seen on what we have seen on anti—vaccination feeling on social .
the public can be absolutely confident that every rous cheque has been done to each the udgment that reached, that the benefits far outweigh any that the safety of the vaccine risk, that the safety of the vaccine has been scrutinised independently commission on human medicines and no stone has been left unturned, olute confidence on the so absolute confidence on the safety, effectiveness and quality of the pfizer biontech vaccine.
in terms of further products, vaccines vid—19 that are coming for covid-19 that are coming through, there are two, you will be , for which we have further olling review is ongoing, and those conducted to the absolute will be conducted to the absolute scientific standards that the public expect.
the health secretary has said rolling out the vaccine will be lenging because it needs to be stored at certain temperatures.
do you foresee potential challenges in ing the pfizer vaccine to offering the pfizer vaccine to vulnerable groups who might not be travel to a vaccination entre, or whose surgery might have the cold storage facilities essary to store the vaccine?
i think every vaccine that omes through will probably have its haracteristics in terms of own characteristis in terms of storage, , transport and iverability.
let’s not forget that a mass vaccination programme, as will be cted very soon, is an conducted very soon, is an unprecedented thing, it will be the vaccination programme in the for decades.
so there will be all nner of operational flexibility is ill be required during the eployment of the vaccine.
as part the assessment of the vaccine, we at the quality, which includes the stability.
but we know that it is taken out, it can be stable, een 2—8 c, to allow for deployment in vaccination site.
50 they can public health bodies.
so they ran actually sort out deployment models sure the stability of the vaccine is maintained.
our next estion comes from jasmine ralston, the ealth service urnal, from the health service journal, good morning.
good morning, thank he vaccine has been approved by the with conditions, what hey?
how should trusts decide ich front line staff have priority the vaccination, and how do you ssure staff concerned the accine might not be safe?
finally, staff he allowed to update of having the vaccination out penalty?
and we ill have control over the nformation provided to health care fessions to the public so that in having that very clear and precise information, everyone be confident the vaccine is ing to reach them in the best ssible way.
and are based around their own personal risk of having harm or re illness from covid—19.
severe illness from covid-19.
secondly, the amount of exposure have two people who have covid—19 infection themselves.
and ly, the mount of interaction thirdly, the amount of interaction they have with different people who lnerable and might acquire covid—19.
so we have set out some ciplas on to prioritise principles on how to prioritise different health care workers and ose when deployment of the vaccine is indicated.
in terms of her it should be voluntary or compulsory, at the moment, there is gestion that the vaccination should be compulsory, it is also an of vaccination and whether somebody wants to have a vaccine or hether they are in the or is at the moment luntary hing.
the has has had about 40,000 trial has had about 40,000 individuals and half of those ived the vaccine and half received the placebo.
so that is really vaccine.
but lso the active recall ystem the is going to launch, hich will ask members to be able to and look at what is happening the vaccine and whether they are developing any side effects.
i would like to stress so far advised how the vaccine might be used in the first of the programme.
we haven’t decided how the vaccine may be in subsequent phases of the ogramme and we will be monitoring the new emerging data, including a coming out from phase one of programme, in order to make our rther decisions.
i think that we are in the midst of a once in a century pandemic
a virus that has affected and every of us in some way.
i would simply to conclude by reiterating that vaccine, produced and developed fizer/biontech, meets rigorous standards of safety, effectiveness and of quality.
that was une raine, hief executive of the medicines regulator, the body has given approval for this which has given approval for this pfizer/biontech vaccine, pretty much that science briefing as she ending that science briefing as she started it come up with a focus on afety, saying public safety has bsolutely always been a top rity.
on that point about safety, three experts very much pains to point out checks have been done, or the processes that they needed to go to bring this vaccine to arket have been gone through.
heard that this vaccine will give immunity from coronavirus, days the second dose, seven days after the second dose, there are 21 days between the two s, partial immunity after the irst dose and full immunity seven after the second dose.
and we aw, which i think is worth looking a list of the priority for peopla getting that vaccine in its phase.
at’s right, that is absolutely because this is a novel pandemic need to keep monitoring those peopla who have the vaccine.
do we think based on that, some people don’t ictly fall into that who don’t strictly fall into that category, an obvious one would be dren under 16 for example who ave very serious health conditions, they get the vaccine early?
this is like, remember in london, we terrible deaths amongst london drivers, it is things like that.
england has returned to a tiered system of coronavirus restrictions, after the national lockdown ended at midnight.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers — where mixing with other households indoors is banned.
the measures were voted in yesterday, despite since coming into office.
tier1 has the lightest restrictions, but fewer than three quarters of a million people are in this tier, where up to six people from different households can socialise indoors and outdoors.
with the end of a national lockdown in england comes a new three—tier system of restrictions to get used to.
here’s how the new system of restrictions will work.
in tier 1, the lowest level of restrictions, groups of up to six people will be able to meet indoors or outdoors.
and in the highest level of restrictions, pubs and restaurants will be forced to provide takeaway only, and there will be no mixing of households, except up to six people in public outdoor spaces like parks.
it’s passed with a majority of well over 200, it’s a very important set of regulations to help the bridge into the spring, where we hope a vaccine will move us into a whole different place.
and the reason that these regulations mattered is it allows us to move to a tiered approach which, backed up by mass community testing, will help us keep control of the virus and avoid another lockdown.
while the new tiers are stricter in some ways, there’s plenty you can now do wherever you live in england that might make it feel like a return to something like life as normal.
in another major change, people will be able to visit relatives in care homes.
new guidance states that contact will be allowed in all three tiers if those visiting have tested negative for the virus.
questions continue about the impact of restrictions, though.
the labour leader sir keir starmer has challenged the government to publish more details of the economic impact of control measures as many businesses face uncertain weeks and months ahead.
there is also the ope of negative emissions nologies, so numerous different strategies have been proposed which increase the amount of c02 storage artificially in the ocean or d.
but the research into many these negative emissions hnologies is actually in its nfancy and one of the pages we have ecently is they rely quite avily on these negative emissions nologies becoming a reality is —— a reality.
the president—elect says his top priority will be dealing with the coronavirus, and jump—starting the economy.
right now, the has soaring numbers of new cases.
new yorkers returned home from the thanksgiving holiday, only to queue for hours, as they waited to be tested for the virus.
everyone’s hoping the vaccine will be available soon.
looking ahead to our coverage throughout the day — the prime minister will lead a coronavirus briefing from downing street later, it will cover today’s vaccine announcement and the three tiers of restrictions in england.
the expects to have millions of doses of the pfizer vaccine available by the end of the year — and the first 800,000 coming next week.
england’s tier system is back but with toughened measures.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
as the second lockdown comes to an end in england, all nonessential shops can reopen.
the has become the first country in the world to approve the pfizer/biontech coronavirus vaccine, with around 800,000 doses of the jab being made available as early as next week.
the medicines regulator says the vaccine — which offers up to 95% protection against coronavirus — is safe to be rolled out.
the vaccine is currently not available in the the first supply of 800,000 vaccines will be sent from a pfizer laboratory in belgium.
this will be enough to immunise 20 million people with two shots of the vaccine, which will be given 21 days apart.
the health secretary says the first jabs will be prioritised to those most vulnerable to coronavirus, starting with care home residents and staff, followed by people aged over 80 and health care workers.
around 50 hospitals are on standby ready to receive the vaccine, with community vaccination centres being established in venues such as conference centres.
more details of when and where you might receive the vaccine will be given later this morning.
prime minister borisjohnson has taken to twitter and said protection from the vaccine would ultimately allow us to reclaim our lives and get the economy moving again.
speaking in the last hour, drjune raine, chief executive of the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency, said no corners had been cut in the development of the pfizer/biontech vaccine, and that it was now safe to be rolled out.
the recommendation has been reached following a scientific and thorough of all the evidence of review of all the evidence of safety, effectiveness and of quality pfizer/biontech vaccine.
the government has now accepted this and has made the decision to pprove the vaccine for use with conditions.
separate ams have been working in parallel iver the most rigorous review this vaccine.
our expert scientists and icians have worked round the ock, arefully, methodically ing over clock, carefully, methodically poring over tables and analyses and on every single piece of grafts on every single piece of data.
we have also reviewed and agreed the ribing information so that the pub“: and health care professionals very dear and can be very are very clear and ran be very confident that the vaccine is being the correct way, nderstanding what is involved.
and forward from today, our national institute for biological ards and control will be standards and control will be independently laboratory tested so very single vaccine that goes meets the same high standards of and quality.
and this news, for so long we’ve been saying that if a vaccine is developed then things will get better in 2021, and now we can say when this vaccine is rolled out, things will get better, and we will start that process next week.
i’m obviously absolutely thrilled with the news and very proud that the is the first place in the world to have a clinically authorised vaccine ready to go.
huge thanks to the scientists, to pfizer, the company.
we’ll start with those who are most vulnerable to coronavirus, and you need two jabs, 21 days apart.
hey were unapologetically yes, they were unapologetic-ally indulging in heir expert status and hat’s use so much now will rely that’s because so much now will rely on trust and as being prepared to this vaccine and that means at they really want to stress too that corners have not been cut in process.
we have been hearing, it’s expected that vaccine supply will be limited at first, so vaccines will be prioritised for the most vulnerable.
people in care homes and health care workers.
will take time to get to the ople it needs to get to so this ’t going to be an immediate ver bullet but the fact that we have a vaccine after such a rrible year for so many people and eir families to be really theirfamilies is going to be really welcome news and gives us much hope and optimism for 2021.
covid tests will be sent to homes in the immediate period a way of reeing up people to actually visit loved ones in the rare homes.
we also understand this cular vaccine has some particular challenges about how you it, the yards, if you take it, the last yards, if you like, from delivery to the people eed to take it.
we do hope we have more testing coming into care homes so the through into rare homes so the guidance today on visiting means hopefully with all things being qual, more people will be able to having really important start having that really important contact with their loved ones and as through those technical we work through those technical challanges through the coming weeks etting the right vaccines out to quit home residents —— out to home esidents, we can open up care home residents, we can open up more widely, but i stress this isn’t to be a quick return to normal or anybody including residents and relatives, is going to be ncremental steps, or the first time i think we can all see some positive at the end of really positive light at the end of the tunnel and a way out of this.
important not to forget how it has been for people with ones in care homes.
it’s been a very difficult year for older and their families, they have een isolated in their own homes, have lost mobility and function heir cognitive function also—mac, and many haven’t seen relatives in care homes in onths.
as you are describing, these elderly people in omes are very often very care homes are very often very vulnerable.
what would you cipate bout actually giving anticipate about actually giving them the vaccine and how active they kely to be in the process of whether they would actually welcome ese are some of the it?
we know have questions about the accine already and have been asking tions today and it’s important take the time to answer these stions and age will be doing best to bring people the best ormation we can so they can make information we ran so they ran make an informed decision so we all rstand just how devastating utbreaks of this virus are in care mes so suring that people can be homes so ensuring that people ran be protected and loved ones can be tected their staff is going protected and their staff is going to be really important.
so they have confidence in the ccine or if they need to talk to or nurse is about it, we uld be enabling them to do hope hat i would encourage everybody to at the vaccine and to see the nefits of it and hopefully take it due course.
social media is awash with conspiracy theories and false claims about a coronavirus vaccine — worlds apart from legitimate concerns and questions.
with the news breaking today about vaccine approval, the same conspiracies are resurfacing online.
all kinds of conspiracy theories about a navirus vaccine have been out here for months and every time is breaking news, like today the pfizer/biontech vaccine, we the same conspiracy theories urfacing again and again and it’s tant to point out these are worlds away from legitimate tions and concerns people have about efficacy and safety of a ccine.
for instance, we’ve seen pop up today about bill gates, is one in particular makes the egation that bill gates isn’t oing to be —— is going to be tting icrochips and people are surveilling through the vaccine people make false claims about it is of deliberately how it is a means of deliberately hurting people or part of a opulation plan.
a lot of anti—vaxxer communities and doscience groups are trying to xploit fear and anxiety about the demic in order to spread disinformation about coronavirus cines, yourself, did vaccines, so ask yourself, did this person share this?
the issue is not when news breaks new claims viral that are false, rather it’s same ones that come up peatedly and it’s that that has an because if you keep seeing laims about bill gates or crochips, you might think, is ere something to this?
england has returned to a tiered system of coronavirus restrictions, after the national lockdown ended at midnight.
more than 55 million people are living in the strictest two tiers — where mixing with other households indoors is banned.
the measures were voted in yesterday, despite since coming into office.
tier1 has the lightest restrictions — but fewer than three quarters of one million people are in this tier, where up to six people from different households can socialise indoors our first report from our political correspondentjonathan blake with the end of a national lockdown in england comes a new three tier system of restrictions to get used to.
here’s how the new system of restrictions will work.
in tier 1, the lowest level of restrictions, groups of up to six people will be able to meet indoors or outdoors.
and in the highest level of restrictions, pubs and restaurants will be forced to provide takeaway only, and there will be no mixing of households except up to six people in public outdoor spaces like parks.
it’s a very important set of regulations to help the bridge into the spring when we hope a vaccine will move us into a whole different place.
and the reason that these regulations mattered is it allows us to move to a tiered approach which, backed up by mass community testing, will help us keep control of the virus and avoid another lockdown.
while the new tiers are stricter in some ways, there’s plenty you can now do wherever you live in england that might make it feel like a return to something like life as normal.
in another major change, people will be able to visit relatives in care homes.
new guidance states that contact will be allowed in all three tiers if those visiting have tested negative for the virus.
questions continue about the impact of restrictions, though.
the labour leader sir keir starmer has challenged the government to publish more details of the economic impact of control measures as many businesses face uncertain weeks and months ahead.
all nonessential shops in england can reopen today as the national lockdown has ended.
we know that some shops have reduced prices hoping to make up that ost ground which they incurred ing the lockdown is.
that online sales have done particularty ell throughout this emic, particularly well throughout this pandemic, however, sales within are traditionally a lot higher.
’ve a huge flip to digital, we’ve seen a huge ﬂip to digital, people going online and spending uring the pandemic.
peter liese is a german and medical doctor who sits on the european parliament’s public health committee.
if: he is not happy about the approval of the pfizer/biontech vaccine y.
any, we supported them with uropean union funds but only a few ago biontech sent the data for hours ago biontech sent the data for a conditional market licence and ’s it is a bit problematic to say that everything is fine you ran start the vaccination.
to be clear, all countries their regulatory authority and ere we have been hearing from ours re was a news conference nswering journalists’ questions concerns including the question about it is that the has been able to authorise the use re other countries and we heard rom the head of that organisation, rners have been cut, safety is watchword, ’s a our watchword, it’s been a scientifically rigorous check ugh work in a rolling review ith scientists going through that ss, basically working 20 47 —— process, basically working 20 47 -- 24, seven.
the european medical agency also has a review but other member states of the european union, or other states that are bound to law, the is bound to law until of the year, but other member states decided not to go for onal emergency authorisation a national emergency authorisation except hungary, which did it with ussian vaccine.
to your knowledge, there ever been a situation ere something, a vaccine has been proved for use by an individual gulatory body and then it has been ocked by the european medicines ncy?
ant to protect the risk - oups, the elderly, is the really nough idence that the vaccine as for these groups should be ter look more carefully in this ue, the vaccine may work rfectly for people like me but not or peopla my mother who is 80 she should get at first but the stion is is it as safe for her as for me.
no doubt at ome you will have questions about vaccine, everybody is interested hat we have been hearing this orning, the vaccine has been roved for use in the and if have questions get in touch ause we are going to be answering many as we can in the next few minutes.
england’s tier system is back but with toughened measures.
more than 55—million people are living in the strictest two tiers.
as the second lockdown comes to an end in england, all nonessential shops can reopen .
we’re expecting a news conference from biontech in germany — following the news that their vaccine has been approved by regulators.
the pfizer vaccine was developed by the german pharma company biontech, it says this is the first emergency authorisation for a covid—19 vaccine worldwide.
we have two important announcements to oday about the vaccine make today about the vaccine developer programme.
we have ounce that today the first global emergency use authorisation granted for phase three clinical data backed covid—19 ine the regulatory agency.
vaccine by the regulatory agency.
we have started immediately the ess of delivering our vaccine and we expect the roll—out of the ine the will happen vaccine and the will happen within the next couple of days.
we called our development gramme for covid—19 cause annot go faster than ight and this what we aimed for.
his journey started in january this and was evoted to the year and was devoted to the development of a well tolerated and tive covid—19 vaccine following he highest cientific and ethical andards.
this was a journey of -11 which started with engineering ltiple vaccine ndidates of which several entered ical testing phase one and april this year.
we have in addition an application at for emergency use the for emergency use organisation like mike authorisation vaccine and the
we have trials in pan and together ongoing trials in japan and together with our partner we have an ongoing two trial with our vaccine in phase two trial with our vaccine in china.
in our trolled randomised minded phase trial the vaccine was tested two injections 21 days apart at latively low as compared to a cebo.
an independent onitoring committee assessed efficacy of a relaxing, the ficacy was assessed based on the ber of confirmed covid—19 cases tarting seven after the second injection.
in the placebo arm, 162 of covid—19 were reported cases of covid-19 were reported while in the arm with vaccinated ects we counted eight cases.
this is a vaccine efficacy of 95%.
ran on this slide that high vaccine efficacy was observed across bpopulations including all age - groups, also including older adults ears and higher.
dependent data monitoring ommittee did not note any serious ety concerns, and fight our vaccine was well tolerated.
we observed the common reactions you have with vaccination, including pain at injection side, ue, headache, muscle pain, mostly and generally these reactions ild—to—moderate and short were mild—to—moderate and short lived.
we observed fatigue and a small percentage headache into percent of ticipants and about 98% of participants who received the first ame back for the second shot.
it is a new drug entity so not yet ved and if entity so not yet approved and if this vaccine is going to be approved be the first messenger drug at well be the first messenger which would be available as a maceutical product.
our which we use for making the vaccine the natural mrna molecule and mimic the natural mrna molecula and has no other components than the naturally well-known moleculas.
the role for this pandemic sed on the simple use of this chnology to make a vaccine.
what is ake a piece of the genetic nformation of a virus and encode this information using our mrna platform.
which with lipids to make a nano particle which protects the messenger so to graded and it allows it to deliver it to specialise sales he body which helps us mode a trong immune response.
it is one of the most precise vaccine technologies, mportant it is free of virus, is a precise immune response of mmunised person is directed against coronavirus and not ainst ything else.
it does not integrate into the and of course transiently active and non—infectious.
this slide explains what is important to understand mrna vaccines work so the lipid oparticles is taken up by specialised cells and then the mrna is translated into the spike protein is the protein which makes the virus enter into you and sales.
we get an immune response by so—called hich are able to see the ilest inside of cells and eliminate and beget antibody responses ich bind to the spike protein and event the virus from infection of man cells.
it is important this of vaccine induces a memory une response so it means the une response that is generated ould stay for months, maybe years rotect the vaccinated individual ainst infection.
but we analysed this mode of action and rmined that our vaccine is ndeed able to induce strong body responses and strong cell esponses.
we have evaluated the ety of the vaccine using a range different essays and different cies and evaluated the vaccine the earty hase and younger and adults to identify a safe and active dose.
we are ntinuing though with the istribution of the vaccine.
this expertise also to global logistics extends to global logistics infrastructure to ensure we can get he ine it to everyone very the vaccine it to everyone very quickly and together with our ner, this is our accine partner, this is our first vaccine we are testing second—generation candidates and the clinic formulations as well.
again chosen to help this vaccine everyone as quickly as we can in ina.
some facts about the , i mentioned the trays can vials, i mentioned the trays ran take up to 1000 doses, one vial is ree of accine is sufficient one tree of vaccine is sufficient for at least 100 people.
this is different than any other ccination, you go to your centre, roll up your sleeve and you ceive in the arm and injection at room temperature of this vaccine.
in addition we have ked at looking at transport and it might affect the stability of accine if we defrost it and ransported it and we have done this sider some of the satellite centres which everyone wants to h, particularly care home must reach, particularty rare home must resume not want to transport people homes to a centre but the and the homes to a centre but the other way round and we have bility studies supporting the idence being able to transport up hours at two to 8 degrees so ran take vials from a accination centre, put them and a and take them to the care homes where they ran dministered irectly to patients.
is this first mrna vaccine are you on one else have had approved?
we see labour pushing at the government hings like ing too slow from things like being too slow duﬂng the pandemic and this will low boris hnson to say, we are he first have approved this and offers a light at the end of the nel, a way out of these tiered strictions so expect to hear a lot that
labour are to oint out that even with likely to point out that even with that big hope of the vaccine and the out starting from next week, roll-out starting from next week, there is still going to be many more that we will be living under estrictions and i will expect to be pushing on the economic impact of that how the government plans to deal with that fix it, and in particular here is a document that the vernment has which apparently ows some analysis of the worst hit ctors.
i know at the whole house will want to oin me in lcoming the fantastic ews that the has formally horised the pfizer vaccine for vid—19.
i’d share the congratulations with the prime minister on the tion of this new vaccine at the eed with which it has gone out and give that congratulations ecially to the engineers, chnicians and scientists who ivered it.
absolutely, istrongly rge that people take up the vaccine is no part of our culture or ambition this country to make ccines mandatory.
ijoined the prime minister and his comments on bled people and like the prime inister, i start with the fantastic bout the licensing of a news about the licensing of a vaccine.
this pandemic has caused so rief and so much loss but we much grief and so much loss but we are now a big step closer to the end tunnel and, like the prime ister, ran expect my thanks to veryone across the house, all the entists who have worked on this everybody who has taken part in trials.
delivering a vaccine irty quickly and safely will now the next major challenge facing country and whatever our ifferences across this house, we have a duty to play our part in his national effort and to reassure blic about the safety of the vaccine.
it is not the end of our national ggle against coronavirus and that’s it’s very important that ckage of moderate but tough asures that the house voted for night, the tiered system, is llowed across the country because t’s how we will continue to beat vims.
the prime minister erenced the priority for the phase in the top two groups residents in care homes and lder and carers, those 80 years old and over and front line care workers.
think at is stage it is very, ery important that people do not hopes up too soon about he speed with which we will be able out this vaccine.
it is to roll out this vaccine.
we are cting several million doses of pfizer/biontech vaccine before end of the year and we will then rolling it out as fast as we sibly can but that is i have so much hasis on the put so much emphasis on the continuing importance of the tiering and mass community testing at the same time as we go forward ugh these tough winter months ecause we will need at the same as we roll out the vaccine, and ’s right to ask about timetables, roll out the vaccine over the few weeks, we will need to keep tough tiering and testing egime in place.
can i press the rime ister 3 bit further about prime minister a bit further about the plan for care homes?
i do so ause all want this to work because we all want this to work because that top category is dents in care homes and that all us to be concern for many peopla.
obviously we all want to overcome this problem ’s in that spirit that i ask and it’s in that spirit that i ask the prime minister what plans has he place to address these put in place to address these particular problems of getting the safely and quickly into care vaccine safely and quickly into care homes, given the practical iculties of doing so and the nxiety that those care homes will getting it quickly?
he is entirely right to raise the issue of omes and the ability to care homes and the ability to distribute this particular type of rapidly into care homes vaccine rapidly into rare homes because it does need to be kept at elsius as i think the house understands -- -70 degrees.
sol think there are challenges to get access to the vaccine.
we are orking on it with all of the lved administrations in order to sure the across the country is and it’s the that will be in the lead, the is able to ribute it as fast and as sensibly as possible to the most erable groups but he is right to raise that particular logistical culty, that’s it’s also important that we get the razeneca vaccine which we hope ill also on stream and while a he is paying bute to those who ave been involved in the vaccines, he could also pay tribute to the work of the vaccine task force secured the deal with pfizer which i think you criticise only weeks ago.
it’s in that vein that i turn to the next question, which is confidence in the vaccine which is a real cause for concern use that’s going to be crucial the success of getting this led out across the country, etting our economy back up and ning.
“an i also urge the prime inister, once the government communications plan for the vaccine, ran share it with the so we can all say the same thing in the way to the country encourage as many people to take vaccine as possible?
the up the vaccine as possibla?
“an the prime minister tell he house, hat is he going to do to protect the jobs and pensions those affected by these closures?
are looking at what we do to rotect all of the jobs at have been lost across the untry and my friend max the ecretary of state for skills has tten to the insolvency department the arcadia directors and will be ing everything we can to restore he high ets of this country with our £1 billion high streets fund and a levelling up fund, but i must say i think it is a bit much the honourable gentleman should ack the economic consequences of he fight against coronavirus when night, neither he nor his last night, neither he nor his troops could be bothered to vote for res, sensible, balanced measures, sensible, balanced measures that would open up the omy and allow businesses to rade.
how can he attack the omic consequences of our battle gainst coronavirus when he won’t upport measures to open up the conomy?
we are of course pporting every we possibly can as well very life and livelihood with a £200 million programme but i would take it more seriously if he abstain on a vote to open up he economy and keep the virus down.
getting on with our programme rolling out the vaccine with sible tiering measures, in dition to which we are delivering re hospitals and 20,000 more lice officers and he talks about tention.
the news of a vaccine roval is the news we have all een waiting for but, speaker, hope on the horizon remains far distant.
“an he confirm to me that the ale of the existing orial hospital which was built by ub“: donation about a century ago now help fund the new building?
decision to llow for the sale of the hospital a atter for the local —— as a matter for the oral -- is a matter, but know he is porting the £12 million we put in the development of a new health well-being ntre for edenbridge.
i’d like to welcome the vaccine, this is a ray of light in times, but last week his dark times, but last week his government published a statement of showing a reduction in the amount wales receives through sport to in england from 80.
this urday i was talking with small sinesses who have had to deal with oding in ebruary and the pandemic nce march.
all they want do is trade so will my honourable end join me in thanking the opla who battled through a really fficult 2020, and does he agree at this news of a vaccine and its censing gives real hope to these women, these three trepreneurs and thousands like across the , hope for a etter 2021?
gratulate the three female entrepreneurs that he mentions and ill be helped by the vaccine they will be helped by the vaccine and they will be allowed to do ness again and what a shame it is that our programme to sensibly afely open up the economy was not supported by the gent-mac.
we all know it take a long time for many ndustries to recover from the act of coronavirus.
the aviation tor and its supply chain which upports almost a quarter of 1 lion jobs as been impacted.
we are doing a huge ount to support our aviation ustry but i appreciate the stress ifficulty is that many families are in at the moment because of the ats to that sector, which are bal because people just are not ﬂying the way that they were before pandemic, but i have every hope at it will bounce back very ongly, particularly in this ountry ich is a world leader in viation.
covid we will of other jobs.
after covid we will require a private sector small ness led recovery.
can i ask the business led recovery.
“an i ask the prime inister if he will require a discipline in the form of a all business test so that every and bit of legislation is measured against whether or not it rovide support for this sector which will be vital for recovery?
however, in that , over 1,000 covid deaths, the highest rate in europe, over 2 lion in debt, the worst performing economy in the g7.
i take her point ore seriously if she and her party be bothered to vote for measures sorry, she defied the whip, orgive me, speaker, labour whip, forgive me, speaker, she defied the injunction to dither he ditherer in chief, but it would be a good thing, she didn’t the instructions to dither, but obey the to dither, but i would take a more seriously if her leader would vote for measures that would open up the economy protecting lives across the .
my constituents have been on the decisions on lockdown they normally and refreshingly.
so will the prime minister with me to ensure that there benefits for the sufferers of onic fatigue and does not link to ngla points evidence?
you, speaker the scottish government announced a £500 bonus me or health and social care is scheme for health and social rare is heroes who have cared to west for pandemic.
pposed to the the pandemic.
if the chancellors decision ncrease it by £20 a week during pandemic, an admission of what constituents have known for 575- ars, the universal credit simply n’t enough to live on.
ijust repeat the point i made earlier on about the huge sums vernment has invested in the government has invested in looking after families and lihoods across the whole of the ell north of £200 billion now, an uplift of universal credit of 0, and we will continue to £1000, and we will continue to support families across this country ghout the pandemic, but the bjective must be, as i hoped he agree, to get the economy oving again and get people back ork in the way that i think into work in the way that i think everybody would want and it’s a , speaker, under this government, spite of all the fficulties we have faced, the unemployment rate is lower in the than it is in france, spain, italy, a and the .
we have not that specific for england but in and she sang the first vaccine will be administered next tuesday ded they get the supplies as provided they get the supplies as expected.
as you’ve been hearing there the become the first country in the world to approve the pfizer—biontech coronavirus vaccine — with around 800,000 doses of the jab being made available as early as next week.
the vaccine offers up to 95% protection against coronavirus.
drjune raine, chief executive of the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency said no corners had been cut in the development of the pfizer—biontech vaccine, and that it was now safe to be rolled out.
the recommendation has been reached following a scientific and thorough review of all the evidence of safety, effectiveness and of quality of the pfizer/biontech vaccine.
the government has now accepted this advice and has made the decision to approve the vaccine for use with some conditions.
separate teams have been working in parallel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine.
our expert scientists and clinicians have worked round the clock, carefully, methodically poring over tables and analyses and grafts on every single piece of data.
we have also reviewed and agreed the prescribing information so that the public and health care professionals are very clear and can be very confident that the vaccine is being used in the correct way, understanding what is involved.
and going forward from today, our national institute for biological standards and control will be independently laboratory tested so that every single vaccine that goes out meets the same high standards of safety and quality.
what is clear at this int about omeini doses of the vaccine are going to be tributed -- how many and who will be in he first ranche.
we have 800,000 ses arriving within days so talk the vaccination programme rting next week makes sense.
we have vaccination bs, conference centres and adiums to do mass vaccinations but use we only have a limited sunplv initially next week.
hospital , about 50 starting to do some of that initial vaccinating and ring that there is enough supply the vaccine into the country is to be a big hurdle in the coming eks and months.
at is ministers are often king about life to start eturning to some normality around r, restrictions are starting to easter, restrictions are starting to ease.
the pfizer vaccination is an oses of three weeks apart and then true doses of three weeks apart and then another week for full immunity in.
the pfizer vaccine has been brought in from belgium, we have several million doses by he end of the year and a0 million the spring.
the oxford university vaccine, several million and already country manufactured to your so that gets the green light that help, the third vaccine, the moderna we are not due to get any until the spring
—— and restrictions we are seeing.
it’s an incredible moment for society, and i really think this is now a turning point in the fight against this pandemic, both here in the and across the globe.
i think the point we need to really all be clear on is once it reaches the and is ready for deployment, this vaccine can actually be stored in a normal refrigerator between two to eight degrees for five days.
now, in terms of then because people have said we won’t be able to immunise people in care homes because it needs to be stored in in ice at minus 70.
i think this is a really critical point, once the vaccine actually reaches the site of deployment, the vaccine can be stored under refrigerated conditions.
and that will allow many populations across the to benefit from this vaccine.
and how big is the dose?
how soon after they’ve had the first dose to people then have to have the second one?
after the first dose it’s 21 days later that they have the second dose of this vaccine.
so our study essentially was measured after seven days after the second dose.
so from that point onwards, we were assessing the efficacy of this vaccine.
the first is after the provision of clean water, vaccines are actually the single most effective public health intervention we can make.
the second point very specific to this vaccine is the independence of the process over the last ten months.
of course, we then looked at the data subsequently, but the efficacy and safety test was done by an independent panel.
and i think, thirdly, the really important point is we’ve also had our data assessed by thejbi who will be making recommendations to the government for which populations should be treated with our vaccine.
this is a complex logistical process across the wider vaccination programme.
we’ve had this pandemic.
how does it feel to now be in a position with your company to be able to offer a vaccine that should see the beginning of the end of this pandemic.
and it’s just an incredibly proud moment forfor us, not just here in the , but for scientists around the world.
more on the vaccine coming up on the one o’clock news.
in a special broadcast, antonio guterres also says "there is no vaccine for the planet".
greenhouse gas concentrations are still rising in the atmosphere, despite the covid—19lockdowns, says the head of the united nations.
secretary—general antonio guterres, will say there is no vaccine for the planet.
the becomes the first country in the world to approve the pfizer coronavirus vaccine.
it’s an incredible moment for society, and i really think this is now a turning point in the fight against this pandemic, both here in the and across the globe.
we’ll be asking, "who will get the vaccine first and how?
also this lunchtime: 55 million go into the strictest tiers in england, as new restrictions replace the second national lockdown.
at last, a hug for loved ones, as care homes prepare to give covid tests to visitors.
‘help is on its way’ — the words used by the health secretary, matt hancock, on the news that the has become the first country in the world to approve a coronavirus vaccine for widespread use.
95% effective, the pfizer/biontech vaccine is the fastest ever to go from concept to reality, taking only ten months to follow the same steps that normally span a decade.
me the medicines regulator gave the green light for the jab to lled out nationwide.
the regulator the says the pfizer hich offers up to 95% jab, which offers up to 9596 protection gainst the covid—19 ness, is safe to begin a full roll-out fter giving emergency roval.
it is an incredible moment or society and i really think this a turning point in the fight inst this pandemic, both here in the and across the globe.
it is stest ever vaccine to go from concept to reality, taking only ten to follow the same scientific that normally take a decade.
parate teams have been working in llel to deliver the most rigorous review of this vaccine.
ministers say 800,000 oses of this vaccine will be ilable from next week and met ith millions more before the end of ear.
