a local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus in leicester cases will see schools close today to all but children of key workers.
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine rules to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
they have told to stagger break times, up children into bubbles and focus core subjects in some cases they turn to the classroom in september.
the government is cted to confirm safety plans ased on reducing contact rather social distancing.
schools and eges are to deliver their full rriculum ahead of exams next mer and plans also in place to prevent the spread of the virus yone in the school tests positive.
and the impossible ule that teachers and the government were trying to solve was get a classroom full again whilst maintaining social distancing that naturally limits the number of children you can have on a ssroom then requires more classroom which then requires more space if you are going to get every back into school.
message of this guidance is that distancing will be encouraged not enforced.
there was gestion that to help children up and to manage the estricted staffing levels that re would be a focus on core jects, just english, maths and cience, perhaps, to make sure that ildren can catch up but the all children ran catch up but the department for education emphasises the full range of the it wants the full range of the curriculum to be taught, although it nises that in some cases it may recognises that in some rases it may need to focus with some children on core subjects because of how much learning has been lost.
now, what that means if there is an reak case within that bubble, outbreak use within that bubbla, that’s the sort of detail that we ust getting because the epartment for education is saying if there are two cases in a that if there are two cases in a fortnight, then that means action be taken on a biggest bail might mean a whole year group ving to go and self—isolate having to go home and self-isolate -- bigot salt.
even if down to one metre social you are down to one metre social distancing?
there to be an acceptance here for ounger children from the government social distancing is not as ealistic with younger kids.
i welcome the removal of social distancing in primary ols if primary schools are to function normally.
we have to accept the coronavirus is out there, but the scientists demonstrated that children in imary, or of primary age, are tistically lower.
can you see what will happen if there is outbreak?
the government is ing if you get two cases in a rtnight then you will have to ear whatever you have defined as a ble and send those pupils home.
is it just about one year group, or do we say there has a use case and we are going to been a use and we are going to dose the whole school for a day or days and pletely clean it and then bring back some and those who been tested have to wait until hey have had their test result.
i think reading these guidelines have reached the conclusion at there is no way schools can go ack with rrent social distancing force, so that has had to be atically reduced.
it is now much ore permissive than prescriptive, will have to encourage heads will have to encourage adequate social distancing rather than enforce it.
but the big hope, i think, is that what they have set sort of a fast—track trigger or testing and osing classes, osing potentially whole year - oups, even closing entire schools, a very low hold for and a very low threshold for triggering that.
two cases in two mean public health weeks will mean public health england will send in a mobile ing unit and they will begin esting, initially, the class, and seems wider spread than the class they will go to the year group on and leave open the option that entire schools could be shut .
now, dearty, i guess the hope is that that will offer some surance that coronavirus isn’t to get out of hand if it starts in schools at all.
in other s, the public health england move in very quickly.
but that a much bigger question about ether test and tracing is fast and fective, whether we can turn round quickly.
though work out, do they want to have to work out, do they want to use and in what circumstances want to use , what sort of eaning regimes they put in, the gree of social distancing they t, the level of face—to—face ontact me they will deem cceptable.
yes, it is things like carrying a flag, not even waving it ome cases, someone had a flag in their bag ocating dependence and somebody lse had a sort of handmade placard, kong independence" written on "hong kong independence" written on it.
america’s top infectious disease expert has warned that the risks an even greater coronavirus outbreak unless it can bring the latest surge in cases under control.
doctor anthony fauci said the current spike — of more than 52,000 new cases in the past 2a hours — was caused by people in some states failing to follow basic rules as the economy re—opened.
and you don’t wear a mask?
< government sources have indicated that dozens of countries will be from its travel quarantine rom monday.
last eekend the government said it relax its advice on travel abroad and would rate countries as green, amber or red depending the prevalence of the virus.
some of ggest names in pop including sir paul mccartney, sheeran and nie nox have signed an open etter urging the government to protect live music venues from effects of coronavirus.
they an extension to the furlough heme for those working in the dustry and the removal of for when shows eventually tickets when shows eventually restart.
a local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus in leicester.
cases will see schools close today to all but children of key workers.
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine rules, to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
guidelines on how more than eight million pupils in england will be able to return to full—time education in september have been released this morning.
clearly, the social distancing rules in place now will need to change.
and those relationships have now become strong and that is a positive from this experience.
what we’ve done is we’ve for eptember, assuming all planned for september, assuming all the children would be back without distancing, because it’s the only way we could start with a plan.
we need these plans to be out and in public and then we need scientists.
we would want children to be back in ember and with a fair wind, may be across than eight weeks between september the virus level rops even more people feel safer.
re is obviously risk that unless are in bradford, where the rus level is higher than average, at that might not be the case but need we need scientists to confirm.
we need sage, they looked at the tion of schools are reopening in apers that were released in e.
they were orried about transmission orks within schools and the idea hat we have these big bubbles with ocial distancing, so classes of or 30 plus sometimes, and then xing those classes.
the question if the virus is circulating, how you ran irculate in that sort of big bubble is issue that we need sage to say they have oked at this, not the words on the per of a government plan but how actual reality will be that they that will be safe in terms of ransmission networks.
if you are in a class of 30 ldren effectively with no social istancing and with no , quite classrooms have poor entilation, for their scientists to s, it’s absolutely safe to be or relatively safe to be in that is thing that the government needs give us.
if you re in a class of 30 children fectively with no social stancing and with no , quite classrooms have poor entilation, for their scientists to s, it’s absolutely safe to be or relatively safe to be in that is thing that the government needs give us.
7 million confirmed cases of coronavirus in the united states.
speaking exclusively to the ’s today programme, doctor anthony fauci, the united state’s top infectious disease expert, and director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, explained that the number of cases in the has not been reduced to baseline because of the way lockdown was approached.
m: we got hit very badly, worse than any country, with regard to the of cases and the number of ases and the number of deaths.
so what we have seen ver the last several days is a in cases that are well beyond spikes that we’ve seen.
we have to that under control or we risk an greater outbreak in the united tates.
when you look at the fact we ever got things down to eline, where so many countries in urope and the and the other tries did, they close down to the tune of about 9796 lockdown.
in the nited states, even in the most ict lockdown, only about 50% of he country down.
but she said her actions line with social distancing.
new zealand’s health minister, david clark, has resigned after criticism over recent slip ups in the government’s largely successful response to the coronavirus.
clark had already been demoted after breaking rules to take his family to the beach.
anything that acts as a distraction or anything that takes away from our effort and energy from our response to covid—19, we just as a can’t ford.
the cluster of deaths was first reported in early may this year, in the north of botswana, around the okavango delta.
absolutely tragic to hear of he deaths of so many of these derful animals.
there is an der standard reticence of anyone their neighbours if they n’t have the capacity, especially time when they are stretched covid—19.
they n’t put the lives of ephants before the lives of ple, which was a common cusation for the previous dministration foster my guess is don’t want to be seen to be ying to respond to what they think onservation problem when they re already dealing with covid—19.
i want to and emphasise to the government is this isn’t a conservation issue, it has the ntial to be a public health isis and because ecotourism is so in botswana, it has the tential to be an economic crisis well.
an ecological disaster psed by the coronavirus pandemic.
brazil has now recorded han 60,000 deaths linked to vid-19 nd, at the same time, is tnessing despread loss of one of he world’s most important osystems.
if we had land clearing and covid—19 together, this bring atastrophic could bring catastrophic consequences for the residents of gion.
thousands of indian and bengali restaurants in the could be lost due to the covid pandemic, industry groups warn, as the lockdown put owners under intense financial strain.
this is the first time abdul has been back to his family run restaurant since the lockdown began three months ago.
but when the lockdown was put in place, they were not ready to move to take away, so their doors have been shut and many say they will struggle to reopen.
the south asian community in the has been cted severely by the impacted severely by the coronavirus.
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine to allow people to go on a mlos to allow peoplo to go on a foreign holiday.
the government will encourage social distancing where possible.
plans will be put in place to prevent the spread of virus, including deploying a mobile testing unit to a school if an outbreak is confirmed.
we are talking a coronavirus curriculum to have everybody end.
if you are to one metre ocial distancing?
what talking bout is if you have got social distancing, we are being rom what you have said and told from what you have said and what i have heard so far, it is you ran.
ger children, there seems to be acceptance on the government here social distancing is not as alistic with those younger kids.
what we have to accept that coronavirus still out there, but the entists have demonstrated that hildren in primary age are atistically lower and
“an you foresee what will happen if here is an outbreak?
overnment is saying if you get cases within a fortnight, you have to clear whatever you will have to clear whatever you define as a bubble and send those home.
is it ust about a year group do we say has been a case, or do we say there has been a use, we are going to close the whole ool or two days and completely lean it and that made everybody and test it until we had a ositive result.
some initial ctions to those guidelines for schools in england.
an awful lot of this has been left to head teachers to make re it will work, so they will have enforce the social distancing les that they regard as ppropriate and will have to to construct bubblas within their - , so they will have to think out staggeringly start to the hool day or staggering break mes, lunchtimes and that sort of ing and they will have to think what sort of face—to—face ontact achers and pupils can ve.
the big thoughts that come through this are the government had learly concluded that they cannot open hools with the existing social distancing regime.
the other thing i think is interesting, and i think this be from the government’s point view, designed to reassure ols and parents, is they do seem be offering or hoping to offer a y, very quick testing and if essary closing of classes all groups or even whole schools.
hey are ying that if ust to so they are saying that ifjust to pupils in an entire school in a night test positive, then public alth england will be able to send eir mobile testing laboratory and test all the other children and teachers, those individuals who came ontact with and then tested he class and the year group and if ssary the whole school, and they ill close down accordingly.
that ikes me as quite a low threshold, clearly i think what they want to say is, look, ere is the to say is, look, if there is the slightest hint of an outbreak we be on it.
that, of course, depends on having a really, quote, beating test entry system up and mnning world beating test entry system up and running and that is, as we have throughout whole covid—19 seen throughout this whola covid-19 crisis, absolutely critical.
you be able to test very, very have to be able to test very, very quickly and get the results back in 48 hours and that is a within 48 hours and that is a broader problem than just schools.
ty, if you can’t do that or clearty, if you can’t do that or there are doubts about that, then it to me that even with all the additional resources and helping to schools, parents are offered to schools, parents are probably going to be uneasy about ing their children back unless sending their children hack unless they are sure that really is a d—class test scheme available.
government sources in britain have indicated that as many as 75 countries will be exempted from quarantine rules from next week, so people returning to the country don’t have to self—isolate.
the government plans to establish a traffic light system to rate which countries are the safest, with some places, such as the united states, likely to be categorised as red and subject to the quarantine rules.
the scottish government has expressed concern about plans to relax the quarantine.
the number of new coronavirus infections in the united states has a record high, causing some tates to oll back their strictions.
more than 50,000 pla tested positive in the on ednesday.
6 million and over 128,000 hs, the highest number of deaths, the highest number of fatalities globally.
north ina, tennessee, georgia and texas have all reached new highs and iana’s infection rates are still continuing to go up.
now the’s fectious disease expert has warned that the whisks an even ter oronavirus outbreak, unless ran bring the atest surge in ses ases under control.
doctor anthony i said that the current rise was caused by some states failing to basic rules, as the economy reopened.
and you don’t wear a mask?
cological aster eclipsed by the oronavirus pandemic.
brazil has now rded more than 60,000 deaths inked to covid—19 and at the same it is itnessing widespread oss of one of the world’s most ortant ecosystems.
if we have land clearing covid—19 together, this could atastrophic consequences for the residents of the region.
there is a reticence from many ons to help its neighbour, specially at a time when they are essed with covid—19 as it is.
condly, current botswana dministration has gone to great to to emphasise to rural populations in untry that they populations in the country that they don’t put the lives of elephants re the lives of people, which was a common accusation of the ious administration and my guess they don’t want to be seen to ing to respond to what they think a consolation problem, when they only eady dealing with are only already dealing with covid—19.
also, at a time they are afflicted and have ffered due to the deadly pandemic the new coronavirus, we are in eed of unity common orientation.
it is feared that ousands of indian and bengali aurants in the could be lost due to the pandemic, as the lockdown is under intense financial pits and is under intense financial strain.
many family owned restaurant will struggle to be open, spite of easing measures.
this is the time this man has been to his family run restaurant ince the down began three since the lockdown began three months ago.
when the lockdown was put in ace, they were not ready to move ake away, so their doors have shut and many say they will ruggle to reopen.
a local lockdown to deal with a surge in coronavirus in leicester cases will see schools close today to all but china demands that britain "immediately stop interfering" in the affairs of hong kong, after the denounced beijing’s new security law in the territory which led to mass protests.
dozens more could be exempt from the ’s quarantine rules to allow people to go on a foreign holiday.
the mystery of the deaths of at least 350 elephants in botswana, ntists describing the incident as completely unprecedented.
guidelines on how more than eight million pupils in england will be able to return to full—time education in september have been released this morning.
clearly the social distancing rules in place now will need to change.
and those relationships have now become strong and that is a positive from this experience.
7 million confirmed cases of coronavirus in the united states.
speaking exclusively today, doctor ny, the top infectious disease xpert and the director of institute ergy and infectious diseases of allergy and infectious diseases explained the number of cases in the own to the way lockdown was was down to the way lockdown was approached.
m: we got hit very badly, or worse than anywhere else when you look at the numbers of deaths.
we have to get that der control or we risk an even eater outbreak in the united ates.
when you look at the fact we ever got things down to eline where so many countries in urope and the and other ntries did, they closed down to the tune of about 9796 lockdown.
in the nited states, even in the most ict lockdown, only about 50% of he country down.
that allowed the country lockdown.
that allowed the perpetuation of the outbreak we never did get under a very control.
new zealand’s health minister, david clark, has resigned after criticism over recent slip ups in the government’s largely successful response to the coronavirus.
clark had already been demoted after breaking rules to take his family to the beach.
anything that acts as a distraction or anything that takes away from our time, effort and energy from our response to covid—19, we just as a country can’t afford.
add to at list a jamaican nurse, who 2016 came the first named black man to be remembered this way tside thomas’s hospital in ndon.
for the emergency services memorial, lockdown meant the fundraising plans had be put on hold.
they want an extension furlough scheme for those working in the industry and the val of a from tickets when shows restart.
that is not to say all ustries are affected, but if we not implement some kind of sidy now or go on to make financial changes in terms of the of on ticket sales or lack of on ticket sales or increasing the furlough scheme, then oing to be a very serious it is going to be a very serious situation for hundreds of thousands pla.
even today online i saw an nurse who was on the front line ghting this virus saying how ortant it is for her when she is inished her days work, just the ught of being able to have live in her life.
how can you nvisage live venues reopening safely at some point?
for xample, they are going to make a of £5 million this year due to the pandemic and coronavirus.
cleariy we need to tackle the virus first oremost and then put an and foremost and then put an infrastructure into businesses that being ouraged to open it to are being encouraged to open it to be able to do it safely, so the plan ins to be seen, it really does.
child and person in the every child and young person in the country has experienced recedented disruption to their learning as a of coronavirus.
education recovery is ritical for is generation of choolchildren.
that is we ave been working to ensure that all will be able to go back to pupils will be able to go back to schools and colleges full—time in mber, ith covid—19 secure measures in place so they have the rtunity to thrive and fulfil their full potential.
the guidance has been eloped with medical experts from “: lic health england and follows egular engagement throughout the reak between the government and ducation sector.
we continue to ork closely with the country’s best ntific and medical experts to sure that both children and staff lways as safe as possible.
this is in addition to protective measures that we are so important for infection ntrol such as regular cleaning and ashing.
all staff, upils and their families will tinue to have access to testing they develop covid—19 symptoms.
these will be taken by children or staff who develop while on site but uld struggle to access a who would struggle to access a testing centre.
this is so that they a test quickly and they can ran have a test quickly and they ran get the results back quickly.
all ols will have access to direct support and advice from their local b“: health england health public health england health protection team to deal with any that may occur.
schools held accountable for the tcomes they achieve through eir funding, cluding through fsted spections, and the covid—19 up unding will be no exception to this.
since may, as esult of the pandemic, it has necessary to modify the duty on oral authorities and health mmissioners so that they could use reasonable endeavours to secure arrange for provision of plans.
in addition, i am pleased to announce we continue on the road to that as we continue on the road to recovery, and infection rates inue to fall, from the 20th of y, nurseries, dminders and july, nurseries, childminders and other childcare providers will no be required to place limits the group size of children who play and can play and learn together.
“an a secretary of tate guarantee every will have full access to school will have full access to testing and tracing, all the and resources they need to open safely?
chip parents need reassurance their children will be especially in communities including ethnic minority unities, where the prevalence of communities, where the prevalance of covid-19 is higher.
as we cus on the recovery for our ducation sector after this demic.
assure her that it is new money for covid—19 catch up und, we are oking forward to haring more details with schools on and will be looking forward to orking with schools, as we have also with the education owment foundation, to make sure at that money is properly hannelled into the areas that are ing to a real difference to children.
this is something hat we have continuously been doing ince the moment that we had to ever since the moment that we had to dose to the first place.
how adequate are these guidelines?
the guidelines een published this morning.
vernment is predicated on its plans for reopening schools fully in mber on the assumption that of september on the assumption that of course virus transmission rates will nue to fall and let’s hope that is the use, of course, you w, in ow, in recent days we have seen dence of a spike, a second wave, ich has led to the lockdown of the ity of cester and we have seen within that, of course, evidence of transmission amongst and virus transmission amongst and 18-year-olds and of course that is to cause ome very serious going to cause some very serious concerns for many parents, but also achers and the workforce in schools more generally.
about her the government’s measures on reopening are adequate in the rcumstances.
but it is vitally important that children, and their teachers, can return to school safely, important school safely, so it is important that important lessons are learned sult of this current virus isis, and indeed the spikes that re seeing around the country, could further disrupt education provision, it is vitally tant that we have an offer of important that we have an offer of education in school, but also that are supported to deliver hat remote learning offer that ldren and young people, who might ind that schooling is find that their schooling is disrupted.
government sources in britain have ated that as many as 75 countries will be exempt from quarantine rules for next week, so people eturning to the country don’t have lf—isolate.
the government ans to stablish a traffic light ystem to rate which countries are safest, with some places such as united states likely to be egorised as red and subject to arantine rules.
they have expressed cerns about plans to elax the quarantine.
the number of new coronavirus infections in the united states has reached a record high — causing some states to roll back their plans to reopen.
this more than 50,000 people tested positive for the coronavirus on wednesday — according johns hopkins university, which tracks global virus data.
6 million and more than 128 thousand deaths, the highest number of fatalities globally.
california alone recorded nearly ten thousand new cases on tuesday.
north carolina, tennessee, georgia and texas have all reached new highs, and louisiana 5 infection rates are still contining to rise.
america’s top infectious disease expert has warned that the risks an even greater coronavirus outbreak unless it can bring the latest surge in cases under control.
doctor anthony fauci said the current spike was caused by people in some states failing to follow basic rules as the economy re—opened.
and you don’t wear a mask?
the prize was abandoned they a coronavirus pandemic.
i am imagining they will have predated the lockdown and the emic hitting britain?
let’s go straight to scotland, where the minister, nicola sturgeon, is etting her daily, coronavirus athing.
an additional ositive ases work in five positive cases work in yesterday, which takes the total to 4, a total of 785 patients are 18,264, a total of 785 patients are currently in hospital with the s, either confirmed or virus, either confirmed or suspected.
that is no change at the rom yesterday, but it does include a eduction of seven in the ber of confirmed cases.
a total nine peopla night were in ntensive care with confirmed or pected id—19 and that is eight suspected covid-19 and that is eight fewer than yesterday.
since the 5th ch, a total of a080 patients of march, a total of 4080 patients who had tested positive and required tal treatment have now been able to leave hospital and in the 24 a hours when death was registered a patient confirmed a test is having the virus, and at takes the total number and that asurement to 2487.
our stimate of the rrently infectious ople and capable of transmitting hers.
the tinued low prevalence of the virus ans we can proceed with hanges anned for tomorrow.
i know at many of you will beacon me are keen to travel further and looking other parts of our autiful country, but when doing at please behave responsibly and llow all of the public health gorously.
be sensitive to those ving in mral and island living in rural and island communities and remember this, if not take appropriate care, you do not take appropriate rare, you risk taking the virus to other es.
you will that yesterday we reported on an outbreak of the virus in annan retna.
so far, ten possible cases have been tified and a significant number ontacts are being traced and ested.
as a precaution, staff at workplaces with connections, ositive connections are also tested and mobile testing units have been deployed.
we are hopeful this outbreak will be ained and i should stress there is no evidence at this stage to est otherwise.
until contact racing and testing has been leted, we cannot be absolutely complated, we cannot be absolutely sure about that, and that means we act on a precautionary basis.
a result, the advice and guidance ple in the areas of annan, to people in the areas of arman, gretna, dumfries, lockerbie and is to continue to follow the ive mile vel restriction over the weekend until the testing and act tracing process has been ompleted and we are able to assess he outbreak has indeed been ontained.
if you run a business in hese area, luding at the gretna gateway outlet village, be extra lant about hygiene and physical distancing.
in addition, care homes ese eas will unfortunately in these areas will unfortunately not be able to welcome visitors over eekend.
generally, to people in these areas, until we conclude anagement of this outbreak, lease assume there is a higher risk fection right now.
i know that this will not welcome news for people in these eas and i am genuinely sorry about at, but this outbreak is sharply inding us how ighly reminding usjust how highly infectious covid—19 is and how vital hat proceed with real care it is that we proceed with real rare and caution.
let me turn to the next of a physical distancing and whether we can in some circumstances the metre rule.
we are publishing today at the advice on a cal distancing that the physical distancing that the government has received from our ntific advisory group.
this advice makes clear that the science sical distancing has not on physical distancing has not changed.
as the distance between decreases, the risk of transmitting covid-19 increases.
so notes that risk can be it also notes that risk ran be mitigated through other measures.
second, two metres will remain the benchmark test and protect system.
in addition, this tancing is ticularly important distancing is particularty important as a guideline in anyone in a -risk group, for example over 70 with an derlying health condition.
sticking two metres has ear lear benefits, it also has a rious conomic implications, and dverse economic impact we know an in turn an effect on it ran in turn have an effect on people’s health and well—being.
general mle in law will be that businesses and services must take asonable measures to ensure hat two metres is maintained.
in the antime, the current rules pply.
obviously if infection evels were to rise again, we erve the right to re—impose a rict to etre rule either strict to metre mle either nationally or locally and to take her lic health measures necessary to keep as safe.
the sue of a physical distancing is evant to the next issue i want to alk about, which is face coverings.
in a few oments, chief medical officer will provide some important rmation for some of the children who are currently shielding, and i want to say directly to any of you re watching, i know how difficult, even more difficult for this last period has been for °“- ou, and i want to thank you for patience and for complying with these rules.
the advice i am about to give up does not apply to dren who are shielding, but the hief medical officers will say more oment.
we also know that the clinical risks of -19, articularly for younger covid-19, particularty for younger children, appeared to be relatively lthough we will never be low, although we will never be complacent about that.
as long as are restrictions on the number of households we can meet, families find difficult to balance the social needs of children and ts.
bearing that in mind, i am announcing ay to further changes our rules to allow for more eraction between young people, these changes will both a flight morrow.
adults who are with you continue to observe the sical distancing from each other, and physical distancing even for children is advised indoors.
as is vious, particularly from that inal ction of my update, some les ules from now on are going to come more targeted as we move of lockdown.
although fic mles rules and guidance are specific rules and guidance are changing, iwant to end by stressing a very basic principle still this, a very basic principla still appﬁes and becomes more important these are the rules change.
it is because so of us have only because so many of us have stuck to the rules so far that we able take these steps out of ockdown and only if we continue to to the rules will be be able drive virus down further and live less restrictive lives in the and months ahead.
so please take advantage of act that some of these rules re changing.
but always be aware, as are seeing in dumfries and loway right now, that this virus not gone away.
it is highly fectious, it is highly dangerous, cases are still being and new rases are still being reported every day.
two metres distancing remains ear overall advice.
the sale of isolate and book a test ediately if you have of ovid-19, there are a ough, fever or or change in he sense of taste or smell.
you can ok test he inform website or all.
as soon as you experience any these symptoms, air on the side caution and book a test.
i am going to ask professor leach to just few more words about the situation around an end and gretna the chief medical officer is going to say a word or two about dren who are shielding, and then we will take the questions we have journalists.
just to add to some of the things she said, deal very quickly first of all with the outbreak and cluster we ssed yesterday.
you will remember there were two contractors tested positive for antibody tests using a private company.
we have retested them using antigen and they are both negative.
cident management team met ast night at four o’clock whether directors of public health from ies and galloway and the director of public health from ria in their local authority hether the contact tracing team, a obiologist and everybody would xpect to be on there, including the executive of dumfries and lloway health board.
we had ttish government representation, cluding me unusually because this mplex outbreak and the first have had in this removal of some in the rich map.
as the first ister said, we have presently, this could change, we have sently had ten positive cases and have high—risk workplaces involved this cluster, and we to be as upfront but as lanced as we can about that.
the tial case, and may not initial first use, and it may not be the index case, it is too early ay, but the case we were to say, but the first use we were aware of is a health care worker the rlisle hospital, and that from the “artisla hospital, and that may be onnected to an outbreak at carlisle hospital, but we that “artisla hospital, but we cannot sure until we do genomic ology at a much slower rate.
the ther two high—risk workplaces that touched on our two factories in dumfries and galloway, and we have obile testing units to them today to test all of the workers in .
again, border with the public health leads from cumbria.
it underlines the rules.
clusters of this size, when is history is written, suggests guidelines may not have been rictly adhered to.
if you guidelines as best you ran.
you can see quickly thin a matter of days how quickly within a matter of days we ran have ten positive cases, and increasing mber of contacts ever increasing number of contacts get harder to trace, and we need to steps already to make dumfries galloway look a little different the rest of the country and we not want to do do that.
cottish government resources and our mobile testing units.
and i do not want you to look for people to me, but you disobey the guidelines, that what happens.
we have to redirect resources in order age that outbreak.
my final thought is if you have symptoms, icularty not exclusively if are in his area of dumfries and loway, please, please come rward for testing.
we really want get to the end of the virus smission of this outbreak and hen we can advise the first nister that dumfries and galloway ave the same restrictions as he rest the country.
i hand to their chief lastly i hand over to their chief medical officer.
i want vide you oday with an update to provide you today with an update about shielding, at the beginning of ndemic, the four chief the pandemic, the four chief medical officers published a list of oups where people could be considered to be extremely high risk reme illness should they of extreme illness should they contract covid—19.
for peopla who are shielding, we are especially aware he restrictions on everyday life we have asked them to follow xtremely difficult.
for children and young pla, these restrictions are articularly tough.
this has been a worrying difficult time for those who are shielding, and i want tribute to everyone for following the shielding guidance.
we recently announced changes to vice for people who are the advice for people who are shielding, to say that we believe it appropriate for them to is now appropriate for them to exercise outside, to meet with other holds or a group of up to eight opla, to take part in noncontact ivities or that we will continue every aspect of our advice people who are shielding under view.
what we will llow is or clinicians to review dividual cases, and let us the daily iefing there from dinburgh, just tell you that later we will be answering your uestions on the back to school plan blished by government this morning.
we’ll have all test details.
dozens of countries may be on a new rnment list of places we can travel to hout quarantine.
we hear about plans for a national monument in the wake of coronavirus.
the championship re struggling due to the coronavirus pandemic.
