the headlines: possible murder charges for the head of a south korean religious sect over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
in the , there are concerns the virus could have been circulating for weeks — up to 1,500 people may be infected.
they’re battling this virus with disinfectant, but as more cases are confirmed, it appears this is a war they’re not winning.
the infection has spread rapidly among the followers of shincheonji church ofjesus.
and as officials raced to trace the outbreak, it’s claimed leaders hid the names of members.
but rather than point fingers, we think what’s more important is to end this situation and to make sure no more confirmed cases come out.
: we can’t quarantine and treat all patients.
those who have mild should stay at home and get treated.
thousands fear they have the virus and are lining up to be tested.
south korea is using every resource it has and still this infection continues to spread.
the coronavirus has now infected more than 88,000 people and spread to more than 60 countries around the world, rattling global markets and prompting unprecedented measures from governments.
the number of cases has spiked and 3a have now died.
fears over the virus have pushed italy’s economy to the a recession, and brink of a recession, and looking at these quiet canals enice, ’s not hard to see in venice, it’s not hard to see why.
nine days ago, italy knew three seemingly of just three seemingly isolated cases.
the regions under lockdown, generate around a of italy’s economic third of italrs economic output, , home to everything from houses to cheese and dairy rocessing centres.
even parts he country not affected by virus are taking a hit.
this video is being ared online showing an lternate greeting, but still isease spreads, and the ‘zech the disease spreads, and the czech republic has no istered its first three cases.
they are now free leave if they test negative the virus and promised to ontinue their period of olation in their home ountries.
the state of shington has declared a state mergency after its first tep from the virus.
there are ears virus has been in no fears the virus has been in the community undetected for s, after scientists found imilarities between new ronavirus samples and those rom an diagnosed patient six eeks ago.
our top stories: the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
the japan times is leading with a story criticising the prime minister handling of the coronavirus outbreak.
: not surprisingly, it’s a lot about the coronavirus.
and its impact of the coronavirus outbreak on sporting events is attracting a lot of interest.
let’s get more on the coronavirus outbreak.
she told me how it compared to the sars outbreak, way back in 2003.
in beijing, for a long time, there is denial that there was an epidemic, and it was really the scariest thing at ime.
let’s look at the outbreak of it happen it ilar ime of ear, winter a similar time of year, winter session, so do you see the same with ?
did it dissipate or did we manage to rol it through very intensive public health sures?
and at what is your ofessional opinion on how the is coping with this articular outbreak?
l111: but we do see is the mental health aspect of the isolation ures that have been going measures that have been going on since january.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
we will be looking at the impact the coronavirus outbreak is having on india’s manufacturing industries as disruptions to the supply chain from china continue.
outbreak ring here and a bit of sleet and wet snow first thing morning, clearing away east anglia and southeast ite smartly but than rightening up.
frost and ice, the test risk.
the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over some of the country’s coronavirus deaths.
the infection has spread rapidly among the sect’s followers, and the authorities say its leaders concealed the names of members.
she said, for example, that south africa’s legacy had made a positive contribution, what you objected to.
the headlines: possible murder charges for the head of a south korean religious sect over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
in the , there are concerns the virus could have been circulating for weeks — up to 1,500 people may be infected.
it’s 9am in singapore, 1am in the morning in london and 103m in the morning in south korea, where the founder of a secretive religious sect is facing possible charges of murder over some of the country’s coronavirus deaths.
they’ve been accused of failing to hand over a full list of followers, impeding the authorities’ attempts to control the outbreak.
they’re battling this virus with disinfectant, but as more cases are confirmed, it appears this is a war they’re not winning.
the infection has spread rapidly among the followers of shincheonji church ofjesus.
and as officials raced to trace the outbreak, it’s claimed leaders hid the names of members.
but rather than point fingers, we think what’s more important is to end this situation and to make sure no more confirmed cases come out.
: we can’t quarantine and treat all patients.
those who have mild should stay at home and get treated.
thousands fear they have the virus and are lining up to be tested.
south korea is using every resource it has and still this infection continues to spread.
the coronavirus has now infected more than 88,000 people and spread to more than 60 countries around the world, rattling global markets and prompting unprecedented measures from governments.
the number of cases has spiked and 3a people have now died.
fears over the virus have pushed italy’s economy to the brink of a recession.
nine days ago, italy knew of just three seemingly isolated cases.
the two regions under lockdown generate around a third of italy’s economic output, home to everything from warehouses to cheese and dairy processing centres.
even parts of the country not affected by the virus are taking a hit.
this video is being shared online showing an alternate greeting, but still, the disease spreads, and the czech republic has now registered its first three cases.
they are now free to leave if they test negative for the virus and promise to continue their period of isolation in their home countries.
the state of washington has declared a state of emergency after its first death from the virus.
there are now fears the virus has been in the community undetected for weeks, after scientists found similarities between new coronavirus samples and those from an undiagnosed patient six weeks ago.
i saw it went back, back, back the rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out so that they don’t get their heads and sent to hospital.
our top stories the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
let’s get more on the coronavirus outbreak.
she told me how it compared to the sars outbreak, way back in 2003.
in beijing, for a long time, there was denial that there was even an epidemic, and it was really the scariest thing at the time.
let’s look at the outbreak.
did it dissipate or did we manage to control it through very intensive public health measures?
and what is your professional opinion on how the world is coping with this particular outbreak?
you of course are seeing a lot of patients worried about this particular outbreak.
they also understand that the public health risk is very large.
but we do see is the mental health aspect of the social isolation measures that have been going on since january.
and those fears continue about the impact of the global coronavirus outbreak on markets around the world.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
we will be looking at the impact the coronavirus outbreak is having on india’s manufacturing industries as disruptions to the supply chain from china continue.
the founder of a secretive religious sect in south korea is facing possible murder charges over some of the country’s coronavirus deaths.
the infection has spread rapidly among the sect’s followers, and the authorities say its leaders concealed the names of members.
we look at how india’s supply chain is ted by the corona outbreak.
the 500 index or instance lost about 11 and a percent all of last week, at’s really a huge amount, and of urse, we saw some $5 trillion can sentially off global essentially wiped off global markets, and that is as more navirus cases came to light in urope in the also dampening sentiments, fresh data over the end from china, which showed ctory activity slumping to a cord low, essentially, in ebmary, ary, of course, that was the ble whammy of the new —— lunar year closures the shutdowns to coronavirus.
i think that momentum will continue over the next matter of days, that news comes forward, and i will only from the chinese numbers but of course from coronavirus.
we have seen the chinese government ously throwing money at their problem of stimulus measures, are xpecting them to do more?
this coronavirus is really something that think the something that i don’t think the markets were ready on, and certainly ow, as far as the push you know, as far as the push forward and what the impact has been, and e’s no sense at the moment that we have actually got this matter control.
but with coronavirus outbreak he supply chain has been impacted.
but with coronavirus outbreak, factories are shot.
: uth korea and japan have ectronic tip dealers that can help s, but navirus is spreading us, but coronavirus is spreading thereto, so it’s better to get from there as soon as supply from there as soon as possible.
back to school on a sunday, well, that’s what these students in japan hat was really to pick up did, that was really to pick up assignments for the coming weeks, last week, of course, we reported that the government made a ise announcement that all surprise announcement that all elementary middle and high schools an would close for a month in japan would close for a month from today, that’s really to to in the spread of coronavirus, contain the spread of coronavims, not the only place in the region to school closure, because we students in the hong kong have ready missed around five weeks of ses since january.
over in where the virus was first scovered, there has been no word on when schools there will reopen.
it was a surprise to erybody, and so the community kinda been rallying around, lots pandemic policy sharing, and orting each other in it, you know, what is working and what is orking.
you know, my heart goes to all of those front—line ers who are out there trying to support, control the virus that enly you have childcare issues.
4% right the open, down only right now, hong kong has also opened fairly , and hat’s really possibly due some argain—hunting from vestors, xpectations as well here might be some stimulus sures to to counter the pact of coronavirus, which has bsolutely meled markets last eek.
the founder of a religious sect in south korea could face murder charges over the coronavirus deaths of some of his followers.
in italy, atalanta players and fans were checked for coronavirus as they arrived at lecce for sunday’s serie a match.
matches this weekend in northern italy were postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak.
rider michael morkov — seen here on the left — was initally quarantined ahead of the event after taking part in the tour, but was approved to compete after they were satisfied he didn’t have the coronavirus.
well, the tokyo marathon went ahead, but only as an event for a few hundred elite athletes due to the coronavirus.
there are concerns the virus could have been circulating in the for weeks.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
over the weekend, a man in his 505 from the north—western state became the first confirmed fatality from the virus in the .
in the last few minutes, we’ve heard from south korea that 500 new coronavirus ases have said the total mber of those affected by the rus in south korea has gone ast 4000.
let me start king you about the virus itself because the key thing is of the public are getting infected but health workers ming infected has become a uge worry for people like you?
one of the hings we noticed it coming out han, the chinese reported at in the epidemic in wuhan re were more than 1000 ealthcare workers infected, deaths, and about 16%, 96, about a.
8%, were seriously ill and many ired admission so that was a wake—up call that ealthcare workforce is our healthrare workforce is highly to this virus and ection.
it occurred to us ere in the united states, and ourse locally, that things ood full down quickly if large ers of the healthcare numbers of the healthcare workforce went down and ldn’t fight this infection, the snowball effect of it oming both demoralising and healthcare workers feel herre not being adequately protected we are worried could break down and collapsed very quickly, and been writing and speaking about this for the last couple and then, of course, of days and then, of course, right on cue, within 2a hours his, e’ve had two of this, we’ve had two healthcare workers in ifornia now infected according to reports.
’ve u’ve personally been working towards cine, what are your views on the vaccine?
there’s a lot of new, citing technologies out there vaccines, a vaccines, for vaccines, vaccines, vaccines, where using a more entional protein approach a number of these ategies are being supported a new international global vaccines partly based in ndon called , that’s the london rallad , that’s the exciting part, but the news is to do a lot of safety testing.
ypically this can equire a or two at least require a year or two at least to show that the vaccine is both safe and effective.
we also know with coronavirus ines and other respiratory accines, there’s this radoxical what we call immune hancement where the vaccine actually make things worse.
was a phenomenon this was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory vaccine in the 605, and we saw in laboratory animals experimental vaccines with experimental vaccines after the original sars came 2003, that’s a long way out in 2003, that’s a long way off saying this is not going to and safety testing an’t compromised, it’s very to ompress imeline, so hard to compress timeline, so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs id—sized biotechnology and mid—sized biotechnology pharmaceutical companies ising we’ll have a vaccine promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
you can forget it, cause the immune because of the immune enhancement phenomenon on we ooking at a least a year away before we have a vaccine, ’m guessing probably longer.
let me know honestly, orried are you about the how worried are you about the new coronavirus?
we saw the devastation this virus caused han, particularly amongst elected age groups, ividuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable, igh mortality rates, ose with high, chronic nditions like diabetes and ertension, and obviously our ealthcare workforce.
many saying that’s obably the case, there’s probably not the case, there’s probably a lot of people with grade fection is that we low grade infection is that we are missing.
his is quite a serious thogen and that’s the orld health organization and director—general, doctor etros, ppropriately declared mergency of international cern 3 few weeks ago, specially worried about the ntries that don’t have the acity to manage complex epidemics or public health ses.
in many respects the pub“: health emergency was not clared so much for the or he , although we’re rtainly concerned, but you imagine as this virus goes into ub—saharan africa, we’ve 1-3 million inese living got 1-3 million chinese living there now, the belt and road iative in the middle east, initiative in the middle east, you get the idea.
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
one man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the .
and never forget that in spite of the flooding, and no one should underestimate the anguish that flooding causes, and of course it is an absolute shock to the households that are affected, but it is thanks to the measures that this government has put in that 200,000 households have been protected from flooding.
the coronavirus outbreak has led to plunging stock markets, the closure of some schools and the cancellation of international sports fixtures.
matt hancock acknowledged that the government expects more cases in the , but he said that schools should stay open unless there are specific reasons for them not to.
about 700 people at a hotel on the island of tenerife were confined to their rooms and will remain in isolation for days.
the hotel was placed in lockdown on tuesday after an italian doctor staying there tested positive for the virus.
speaker, we have a clear four—part plan to respond to the outbreak of this disease.
we are taking all necessary measures to minimise the risk to the public.
we have put in place enhanced monitoring measures at airports, and health information is available at all international airports, ports and international train stations.
the world health organization has warned that countries are "simply not ready" for a pandemic.
there has now been significant spread of the virus across the european continent, italy in particular, but other cases have been identified in austria, croatia and switzerland.
there are concerns the new coronavirus could have been circulating in the for weekss.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
over the weekend, a man in his fifties from the northwestern state became the first confirmed fatality from the virus in the .
one of the things we noticed it coming out of wuhan, the chinese reported that in the epidemic in wuhan there were more than 1,000 healthcare workers infected, with six deaths, and about 16%, about 1a.
8%, were seriously ill and many required admission so that was a wake—up call that our healthcare workforce is highly to this virus and infection.
it occurred to us here in the united states, and of course locally, that things good full down quickly if large numbers of the healthcare workforce went down and couldn’t fight this infection, and the snowball effect of it becoming both demoralising and if healthcare workers feel they’re not being adequately protected we are worried things could break down and collapsed very quickly, and we’ve been writing and speaking about this for the last couple of days and then, of course, right on cue, within 2a hours of this, we’ve had two healthcare workers in california now infected according to reports.
you’ve personally been working on a vaccine, towards a vaccine, what are your views on the vaccine?
there’s a lot of new, exciting technologies out there for advancing vaccines — vaccines, vaccines, we’re using a more conventional recombanent protein approach and a number of these strategies are being supported by a new international global fund vaccines partly headquartered in london called , coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations, that’s the exciting part, but the bad news is we still have to do a lot of safety testing.
typically this can require a year or two at least to show that the vaccine is both safe and effective.
we also know with coronavirus vaccines and other respiratory vaccines, there’s this paradoxical what we call immune enhancement where the vaccine can actually make things worse.
this was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory virus vaccine in the ‘605, and we saw in laboratory animals with experimental vaccines after the original sars came out in 2003.
that safety testing can’t be compromised, it’s very hard to compress timelines, so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs and mid—sized biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
you can forget it — because of the immune enhancement phenomenon, we’re looking at at least a year away before we have a vaccine, and i’m guessing probably longer.
let me know honestly, how worried are you about the new coronavirus?
we saw the devastation this virus caused in wuhan, particularly amongst selected age groups, individuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable, pretty high fatality rates, those with underlying chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and obviously our healthcare workforce.
on average a single individual will infect three or four people, so it’s two or three times more contain just than seasonal flu and as many as ten times more serious in terms of fatalities than seasonal flu, so we’ll have our hands full.
this is quite a serious pathogen, and that’s the world health organization and the director—general, doctor tedros, appropriately declared an emergency of international concern a few weeks ago, especially worried about the countries that don’t have the capacity to manage complex epidemics or public health crises.
in many respects the public health emergency was not declared so much for the or the , although we’re certainly concerned, but you can imagine as this virus goes into sub—saharan africa, we’ve got 1—3 million chinese living there now, the belt and road initiative in the middle east, you get the idea.
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
the cases of blasphemy are brought before the court and follow due process of the law.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1500 people.
one man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the .
this week: wake up, get ready, coronavirus is coming — the message from the world health organization to governments everywhere.
hopes of stopping the new virus at national borders all but vanished over the past week — and global financial markets reacted accordingly.
but if we can’t stop this coronavirus, can we slow it down?
it’s really concerning that the government has not been straight with how far the cases there has spread.
cases have come to iraq and lebanon through iran because people were not tested.
persian, for example, has been able to verify deaths of about 210 people, whereas, the government until recently has been insisting it is only 3a and dismissing media reports that say otherwise.
it’s not so much about the number of deaths, but much more being indicative of a country not playing it straight, therefore, the ability to spread to other countries.
cases have cropped up in afghanistan, also originated from iran.
with transparency, i feel there is a government where we can have more confidence in the figures being put out and the measures put in place.
i want you to look at the for us, that is a country with unexplained cases, they can’t trace the contact.
also, the political leadership, donald trump talking at odds with his public health officials?
you would hope — traditionally it’s been the case with previous american presidents — that when you get a crisis like this, that america is a country that has leaders that want to show leadership, rather than picking fights with scientists.
i’m from california, it has about half the reported infections, i think it is doing a betterjob than the federal government as a whole in terms of trying to walk the line between overreacting and under reacting to a public health crisis.
there are now some unexplained infections, but that means california is now monitoring more people than it did before, it is expanding its testing regime.
i think there has been a sense like that over the past few days already, that the lockdown on hubei province, the epicentre, has been effective.
now we see that this is china beginning to pat itself on its back for the measures it’s taking.
absolutely, coronavirus is the most read topic on our websites since the beginning of the year.
the decision about schools, in the , the first arab country that declared it had coronavirus patients, then five people have actually recovered.
they can be blamed afterwards for not being strict enough with the measures.
i think what is dangerous about this narrative of congratulating china — it has taken very strong measures recently, that is incontestable — is the core area that a liberal, democratic state could not mount an effective response in quite the same way.
that can help contain and mitigate the effects of coronavirus.
i want to ask you about the point of the measures we have been talking, to slow infection rates.
two months in, do we know enough about this virus itself to choose the best weapons with which to deal that?
it is very difficult for western governments because the chinese have done something which is clearly within frame of reference, complete lockdown.
this is the story of the last 100 years or so since the great flu pandemic after the first world war.
this is something which lots of scientists have warned about, and have seen and in the context of other global outbreaks.
is the public health messaging, in so far as we understand the virus — how to beat it with barriers, masks, hygiene, social distancing and so on — are those messages getting out effectively to communities in your part of the world?
google has been great in terms of, if you look up coronavirus, the first thing that comes up is the world health organization.
while that is not a good thing in terms of absolute number, it actually can be a hopeful sign in that we would know about it if the mortality rate was much greater.
if these are not actually causing deaths, it shows the mortality rate is much lower than we have so far seen.
it is complicated by more good news, all the early indications suggest that 80% of those who catch this will suffer really mild symptoms.
the concern is that if they are right, if about 50% of the population of the that can be infected, if the death rate is 1%, maybe even 2% — those are still huge numbers of potential deaths.
henry, coming back to china, one of the things that we will see over time in that giant petri dish, as it were, is that when people do start going a back to normality — how much infection there is then when the quarantine is over.
but i think will be the further test of where we see this virus going.
let’s move on to the economic impact, and the political, cultural impact.
they are stress testing and looking at how solid the banking system is, because it wouldn’t take that much.
a friend of mine who works in a hospital in california says because the drug manufacturing in china is so big, they are witnessing shortages now in the .
not necessarily because of the coronavirus, just in general, because china is such a big workshop for the world in so many different ways.
for all sorts of reasons, i think you will start to see, after this pandemic if that is what it is, people becoming much more fashionable to and re—shore some manufacturing back to europe.
stefanie, everyone is trying to stay positive about the economy and open minded about the prospects of damage limitation in relation to coronavirus.
i’m no economist, but before coronavirus, there was already a recession looming in germany, growth was going down.
the potential upside, the good news, is that if this is relatively brief and the weather warms up and things improve and it does not turn into a pandemic, all the historical evidence is that you then get a very rapid bounce back, and you get a huge surge in demand as people get back to work and life returns to normal.
50 really limit them and put people into quarantine almost.
it is a really big question, is it foing to become a pandemic or not?
that was also exarcebated in some ways in the by trump’s travel restrictions on people entering from china.
by that measure now, we should be talking about travel restrictions on people from italy, south korea.
this is a virus potentially anywhere?
globalisation, a positive thing, comes with a downside.
there are concerns the new coronavirus could have been circulating in the for weeks — up to 1500 people may be infected.
scientists in the united states say the —19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1500 people.
over the weekend, a man in his fifties from the northwestern state became the first confirmed fatality from the virus in the .
one of the things we noticed it coming out of wuhan, the chinese reported that in the epidemic in wuhan there were more than 1,000 healthcare workers infected, with six deaths, and about 16%, about 1a.
8%, were seriously ill and many required admission so that was a wake—up call that our healthcare workforce is highly to this virus and infection.
it occurred to us here in the united states, and of course locally, that things good full down quickly if large numbers of the healthcare workforce went down and couldn’t fight this infection, and the snowball effect of it becoming both demoralising and if healthcare workers feel they’re not being adequately protected we are worried things could break down and collapsed very quickly, and we’ve been writing and speaking about this for the last couple of days and then, of course, right on cue, within 2a hours of this, we’ve had two healthcare workers in california now infected according to reports.
you’ve personally been working on a vaccine, towards a vaccine, what are your views on the vaccine?
there’s a lot of new, exciting technologies out there for advancing vaccines — vaccines, vaccines, we’re using a more conventional recombinant protein protein approach and a number of these strategies are being supported by a new international global fund vaccines partly headquartered in london called , coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations, that’s the exciting part, but the bad news is we still have to do a lot of safety testing.
typically this can require a year or two at least to show that the vaccine is both safe and effective.
we also know with coronavirus vaccines and other respiratory vaccines, there’s this paradoxical what we call immune enhancement where the vaccine can actually make things worse.
this was a phenomenon discovered with a respiratory virus vaccine in the ‘605, and we saw in laboratory animals with experimental vaccines after the original sars came out in 2003.
that safety testing can’t be compromised, it’s very hard to compress timelines, so we’re seeing a lot of biotechs and mid—sized biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies promising we’ll have a vaccine in weeks.
you can forget it — because of the immune enhancement phenomenon, we’re looking at at least a year away before we have a vaccine, and i’m guessing probably longer.
professor hotez, tell me honestly, how worried are you about the new coronavirus?
we saw the devastation this virus caused in wuhan, particularly amongst selected age groups, individuals over the age of 60 are especially vulnerable, pretty high fatality rates, those with underlying chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and obviously our healthcare workforce.
on average a single individual will infect three or four people, so it’s two or three times more contageous than seasonal flu and as many as ten times more serious in terms of fatalities than seasonal flu, so we’ll have our hands full.
this is quite a serious pathogen, and that’s the world health organization and the director—general, doctor tedros, appropriately declared an emergency of international concern a few weeks ago, especially worried about the countries that don’t have the capacity to manage complex epidemics or public health crises.
in many respects the public health emergency was not declared so much for the or the , although we’re certainly concerned, but you can imagine as this virus goes into sub—saharan africa, we’ve got 1—3 million chinese living there now through the belt and road initiative in the middle east, you get the idea.
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to 1,500 people.
before we go, some bits of information we’re getting at regarding the new coronavirus.
thailand reporting new of coronavirus, so one new use of coronavims, so infected in thailand is 43 and off the back of news the this off the back of news the moto in thailand, due to place on the 22nd of arch, has been cancelled due coronavirus.
also news from south korea, for more pla have died in south korea ter fter contracting coronavirus ur.
four more people have died in south korea after catching coronavirus.
she said, for example, that south africa’s legacy had made a positive contribution, which you objected to.
our top story: new results suggest the coronavirus could have been circulating in the for weeks.
counting the cost of coronavirus — could the growing outbreak now lead to a global recession?
today we’re asking have you changed your behaviour, routine or way you work due to coronavirus?
just use the hashtag: we start with the latest on the coronavirus outbreak.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 strain of the coronavirus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks.
the has two confirmed deaths caused by the virus — both of them in washington state.
the number of confirmed cases around the world continues to rise.
1m new cases are being confirmed on a daily basis.
countries do not currently have the that do not currently have the virus are preparing themselves almost inevitable arrival.
officials in the state of washington say up to people may have veered 1500 people may have veered infected and the virus may have present in the state for six weeks.
the tal mber of confirmed cases ationwide is more than 80.
the ber of corona don’t virus deaths worldwide has now eeded 3000.
—— coronavirus.
he country side of china the country outside of china with the most infections in korea, with a76 cases on south korea, with 476 cases on monday, bringing the total to than 4000.
south korea has rged peopla to stay at home scientist are continuing to and find a vaccine and some being trialed on animals.
that safety cannot be that safety testing cannot be compromised.
it is a very hard ressed highline so we have compressed highline so we have seen via text and mid—sized echnology and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies ising we will have a promising we will have a vaccine in weeks.
because of this phenomena, we are looking at one year away before we may have a vaccine and i’m ssing longer.
italy still has the highest number of onavirus cases in europe.
head of the civil protection for says the number fections had doubled in of infections had doublad in more than 148 hour period and a ity in rome was closed on monday after one of the priests positive.
the british me minister, boris son prime minister, boris johnson is to chair a meeting of the rgency committee after a ump in infection rates in the it comes as around 150 awaiting repatriation from rife where they have been tenerife where they have been in repatriation for a week.
will only be allowed home if they have tested negative he virus.
-19 is not as deadly as other strange such , but what worries officials is the speed at which irus spreads, often with mild symptoms.
196, the slowest china has seen in hree decades with this ealed the extent to which the outbreak of coronavirus have, a very, very will have, a very, very significant effect on the nomy.
today in asia we have seen some recovery in markets in asia, in japan ere early notably injapan where early losses were reversed, and the ral bank supporting markets last week coronavirus wiped $5 trillion from global tocks.
the constitutional rights of these marchers are their rights as citizens of the united states, and they should be protected even in the right to test them out, so that they don’t get their heads broken and are sent to hospital.
scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for the last six weeks, infecting up to fifteen hundred people.
we do have rime minister during a cobra meeting here in the today is the virus spreads in and elsewhere outside the and elsewhere outside china full
watching for rain dose to the south of england and wales.
counting the cost of coronavirus — could the growing outbreak now lead to a global recession?
and china’s efforts to contain the virus hit manufacturing in the workshop of the world.
share prices in asia have reversed early losses after japan’s central bank promised to support markets in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.
the virus is continuing to spread across the world, with the total number of cases now close to 90,000 and the economic impact is growing.
factory activity in china fell at a record rate in february, as manufacturers closed their operations to contain the virus.
this is the ‘s second largest of world ‘s second largest of course and it is dealing a ere blow to factories across sia, including japan, south ea, taiwan, really showing idence yet of the damaging ffects of the epidemic on the bal business and yet markets rebounding.
we are seeing kets reversing that re still warning of further moil on trading floors as ernments struggle to contain coronavirus, which is now killed than 3000 and killed more than 3000 and infected am almost 19,000.
we have to remember at the crisis comes at a time global growth has lready been week in an, italy, fell in the last rter and that has nothing to with coronavirus so without monetary stimulus or iscal stimulus, there is a set risk hat some countries uthentic recession.
however, as we’ve been hearing, the coronavirus outbreak is beginning to cause major disruption to supply chains and nowhere more so than in india as the ’s devina gupta has been finding out.
but with the coronavirus outbreak, ories there are shot.
taiwan, south orea and japan have some ectronic chip dealers who can us but ronavirus is help us but coronavirus is spreading there also so it is to get supply from there soon as possible.
m: we will stay with more of those stories such as coronavirus in ent.
the latest headlines: scientists in the united states say the covid—19 virus may have been spreading undetected in washington state for six weeks, infecting hundreds of people.
one man is now confirmed to have died from the virus in the .
we begin with the times looking ahead to the emergency coronavirus meeting being held by the government here in london later.
it quotes borisjohnson saying they’ll stop at nothing to stem the spread of the virus and reports that a lockdown on whole cities hasn’t been ruled out.
6 billion dollars into its economy to mitigate the fallout from it becoming europe’s hotbed for the virus.
and i imagine elsewhere in the world coronavirus front—end have coronavirus front-end centre.
social distancing might important and the export of coming up.
so every part of the has omeone with a corona’s virus infection.
the urozone and level was the pump before the coronavirus.
it the biggest xporters cars and a lot of supply chain come from sia, notably china.
the nomic pact that we spoke economic impact that we spoke about the eurozone challenges, many, ’s a kind of me was quite impacted by opening the to syrian refugees.
it has brilliant to have you on he programme and thank you for of your comments about coronavirus.
this could be an exhilarating ride or we could just plummet to our deaths!
borisjohnson will today chair an emergency cobra meeting, as the number of cases of coronavirus in the ukjumps to 36.
the worldwide death toll is now more than 3,000, as fears grow of a major outbreak in the united sates as a second person dies there.
the prime minister will chair his first meeting of the government’s emergency cobra committee this morning, as the number of cases of coronavirus in the rises to 36.
ahead of chairing a cobra emergency meeting, borisjohnson went to visit the health professionals in the front line of the fight against coronavirus.
at the laboratories of public health england in london, he expressed every confidence in the people around him.
coronavirus is a concern.
we have state of the art testing facilities, we have a fantastic .
the jump in cases announced yesterday includes a family cluster of three adults related to a man in hazlemere, who was confirmed as testing positive on friday.
it’s still not known how he got the virus.
but the public can help, because we are still very firmly in the containment phases of this infection.
last night, some of the first britons released from several days’ in the in washington state, a nursing home is still under lockdown ears dozens might have the vims.
amid fears dozens might have the virus.
local scientist thought he ught the number of thought the true number of infections could run into their 100 ause the virus had been is because the virus had been mnning undetected for many weeks.
and at the source of the infection in china, the daily toll of new infections continues to fall.
but, with another 42 fatalities, the global death toll from covid—19 has now passed 3,000.
they this meeting this morning is out coordinating their battle an, as they describe it, to put in the necessary countermeasures eal with coronavirus and and ontain its spread.
they emphasised containment is the state they are at now, they talk about the need government to do all they for the government to do all they ran but is well individuals, in of of self isolating if you have if you have spoken to 111, and basic things like washing to minimise the likelihood of pread of infection.
