the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
ryanair announces it plans to cut 3,000 jobs, as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
south africa starts easing its coronavirus restrictions after five weeks of lockdown.
and a musical tribute for the champions of the pandemic — queen say the proceeds will go to global health charities.
the government says they are confident that they have hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline — was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests — to be met by the end of april — had been set by the ’s health secretary, matt hancock.
budget airline ryanair has announced they are cutting up to 3,000 jobs — mainly pilots and cabin crew — as they restructure to cope with the coronavirus pandemic.
meanwhile in the — president trump said he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory, but provided no details.
the national intelligence director’s office say covid—19 "was not manmade or genetically modified" and china rejects the theory.
south africa has started easing coronavirus restrictions — after five weeks of lockdown.
some businesses are reopening, restaurants can deliver food and families will be allowed to leave home to exercise.
we’ll have more on the global response to the pandemic shortly — but first this report from our news correspondent - dan johnson.
and here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus, heroes can be patients too.
west midlands police chief superintendent, phil dolby, spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
also bouncing back, the prime minister, with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope i can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past the peak of this disease.
we are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
across the , the virus has taken someone special from 26,771 families.
more than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
so it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
the infection rate and the number of people each of us passes the virus to must stay below one.
testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
the transport secretary, grant shapps, has said the government is "quite likely" to have either reached — or come close to meeting — the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests.
we can speak to professor sian griffiths who chaired the inquiry into the hong kong government’s response to the outbreak.
testing is going to be the release of lockdown and need to continue to push to have tests, i think 100,000 was a rget.
but the real question is tests are using, when are we sing it and we have enough test to ontact tracing we need to in the mmunity once we start to lift ckdown.
absolutely, we have already heard that today as well, much testing alongside that ontact tracing to make both parts hat approach effective.
we don’t really know how many tests we are going to need, going to have to ramp up the esting because if, for example, we ingle case that was had a single case that was identified through testing, you then need to contact trace and would depend on the number of ople that person had been in tact with, it would depend on a ola set of factors so you need to producing the testing come up a monitoring system which tells s, a lot of the information we need now.
this is a dynamic situation, testing as part of the onse and the creating of the ight conditions for releasing kdown.
well, if we ok to the east, taiwan and look to the far east, taiwan and south korea usually held up as the examples of work testing has one of the key arms of keeping numbers low.
both time and and uth korea, time and in particular, managed to keep the numbers very w, the numbers of cases and deaths ery low, south a has shown that very low, south korea has shown that by using testing, they’ve been able dentify clusters and then to identify the clusters and then focus huge effort on testing and you get a positive test, you ake sure you isolate that case and some ses, that means going to a overnment cility but if you go home isolation, that also means are monitored for being at home
and so the other arm of the side of contact tracing, ctually contact races themselves, where cases had dispersed to finding where rases had dispersed to come at the other arm of this is the apps and so in south korea, example, there is a riangulation between your mobile e, your credit card details and lso some implication of involving ameras.
so both those countries that have managed to keep both the ers down and both the deaths and rases, have been very rigorous in contact tracing of both using he human side and using the velopment of apps and i think this mething that is being looked across europe, the development you use apps along with of how you use apps along with contact tracing.
but it will be the development of pp, along with a robust testing trategy, which from my point of , needs to have very strong oral ocal engagement because i think you ocal knowledge to make sure need oral knowledge to make sure you ran make this system work.
given xperience in working in hong kong in terms of the response to the utbreak there, i’d be really interested to get your take on how overnment builds confidence in population after an outbreak, a demic.
we heard boris nson, pandemic.
they are talking about the use of masks might be to build confidence in the opulation because clearly people and seen surveys about this, people are nervous about the idea of a lockdown?
in 2003, the outbreak was similar timing as we oing through new and in the mmer, i was part of the inquiry, -chair of inquiry team that looked at hat lessons could we arn so we were very rapidly ught in to look back, because all the way through the first outbreak in 2003, there was a sort nse about, because people don’t now and because it was new, people going, that could have been better, lots of uncertainty.
so the inquiry hen used for example, to build up the public health system which een rather neglected, particularly the infectious disease of so hong kong now has a side of it so hong kong now has a very robust infectious disease em, the centre for health otection, which enables them to spond extremely quickly when they any other outbreaks.
in terms the wearing of masks, wearing of is and has grown culturally llowing and as soon as this ronavirus outbreak was announced, eopla in hong immediately people in hong kong immediately queued to go and buy masks so that had their own supply of masks cause wearing a mask has become, you say, not necessarily the ience, it’s the reassurance, assurance issue.
president donald trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory.
his own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating how the virus began, but have determined covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab, although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
he told reporters either china couldn’t stop the virus from spreading, or it didn’t to.
whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed as a biological weapon, the intelligence community didn’t contradict the president’s theory, saying: this country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more than 60,000 deaths.
the virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy, leading to long lines in cities such as houston, as people queue for free food.
although he’s avoided direct criticism of china’s president xi, with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, president trump has talked of making china pay for the harm the virus has caused to the american economy and, by extension, to his chances of re—election.
unsurprisingly ere’s been anger and this led ina to be able to give credence to alternative conspiracy theory of own, the was the one that originated the virus, the foreign saying politicians are ccusing the wuhan lab of entionally licking the virus is a lie, it’s fabricated for lie, it’s been fabricated for american political ambitions.
—— licking the virus.
that being said, chinese state diplomats have put out their own ry, the military brought the to china and it’s a conspiracy virus to china and it’s a conspiracy theory that there is no evidence for people in china believe.
you’ve seen this diversion ratives of what happens and hat’s very dangerous because we are a global pandemic but we have hese different camps are people who ieve different, what they believe wholly different, what they think are facts.
they are not and actually, i was in wuhan two weeks ago, i mean quarantine now, which is a pulation from coming back to ijing from wuhan.
people were rried about a second wave of ections but not the fact they re so close to this bio lab at the ad accused of leaking the virus.
hey very much ieve, many people i talk to, the was the one that the virus to china.
king news coming to us on coronavirus from northern ireland.
atistics show around 40% of new statistis show around 4096 of deaths linked to 19 in hern ireland have occurred in are omes.
the weekly figures lished by the northern ireland atistics and research agency cords all debts in which 19 isted on the death certificate, it provides a fuller picture of ronavirus mortality rate.
and of course, more oadly around , there is a ery big concern about how many are happening in care homes that they properly recorded and that they are property recorded and acknowledged in figures.
also just coming in rom the world health organisation in the last few seconds.
in another sign of impact of coronavirus on the huge impact of coronavirus on heathrow airport.
meanwhile european budget airline ryanair has said it may shed up to 3,000 jobs as it restructures to cope with the pandemic.
if a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger, if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper cuts into the future.
yes, ryanair in the , all of the employees that i represent, the cabin crew, or under ugh, claiming retention furlough, claiming job retention scheme, obviously that’s now been ded until une.
we don’t know hether hat will be extended ther, we’ve sought support from he government particularly with gards to ain sectors including regards to certain sectors including aviation, to continue that because ill be slow at coming out of any lockdown measures than any other so we think there’s a sector so we think there’s a possibility that it will be nded, hence we think it’s a very remature announcement.
absolutely fundamentally and at the moment we eal concerns about some of the measures, we are still flying and erating.
do you think people can safely you think peopla ran safely though and how long might it take eopla to think that they can for peopla to think that they ran safely if, , as we heard today, cial distancing simply isn’t a actical prospect on airlines?
ell, ere are some measures that ran take in erms of airlines, ocial istancing is more oblematic and that’s there uld to be support because she wouldn’t be filling our craft up.
e’s also questions about protective equipment, so whether face masks, gloves etc, these re all sorts of different measures we need to sit down, the that we need to sit down, the government and the industry and uss and look at the impact on he industry and what support is to be needed to build that nfidence back up.
it needs support and most importantly, as “- say, it needs to build the confidence and therefore we need to these measures about social distancing, , the people who work industry how it will in the industry and how it will affect them, as well as the sengers travelling.
the united nations secretary general antonio guterres has expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
you have described covid—19 as the biggest challenge facing the world since the second world war.
unfortunately what is true is that the world was not able to come together and to face covid—19 in an articulated, coordinated way.
and this has allowed the virus to spread.
are you talking about the great power rivalry between the united states and china, this propaganda war that has erupted since covid—19 became a pandemic?
there have been criticisms of the world health organisation for ing to sound the alarm early enough.
it is also tme that when all this , in my is also true that when all this ends, in my opinion, we need to look usly, as an international community, how this pandemic ged, how it spread so quickly, all the different actors that re involved, behaved.
the headlines: the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
budget airline ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory but gives no details.
and south africa starts easing its coronavirus restrictions after five weeks of lockdown.
india has had more than 35,000 cases of coronavirus so far, and more than 1,100 people have died of the infection.
the country has been in lockdown for nearly six weeks now.
and while doctors say it has slowed the spread of covid—19, it’s also meant that millions who depend on daily wages are facing extreme difficulty.
this man has recovered from covid in the southern state of kerala.
more populous than canada, the region had the first coronavirus infections in march, but it curbed the spread, and its strategy is giving hope to the rest of the country.
once we identified all of them, the next strategy was to ensure home quarantine in the strictest possible sense.
and while the real scale is hard to assess, doctors say covid would have spread a lot more quickly if india had not imposed a lockdown relatively early.
people are only allowed to go out to buy essential items, and you could even get arrested for violating the lockdown, which is perhaps one of the most stringent in the world.
calls to ease the restrictions are growing louder.
as you go out of lockdown, it has to be first of all a phased release after lockdown, and many countries are now putting in place systems of how they will do that, and the monitoring testing is going to be extremely important
so at any time if there is an alert or a red flag that things are not looking so good, again, more strict measures may have to be put in place.
the nationwide lockdown is due to end soon.
from today residents in the state of illinois must cover theirfaces in public spaces when social distancing is not possible.
to encourage people to observe safety measures, some iconic landmarks in chicago have been given face masks.
in the early stages of the pandemic, both britain and south africa followed a near identical path of infections.
no more than a few hundred patients infected in hospital, its death rate has been staggeringly low in comparison to the .
in a land of furious inequality and habitual la, e, the virus was always going to cause here in south africa.
overcrowded townships around ohannesburg, of covid—19’s johannesburg, news of covid-19’s rival, the first confirmed case was he 5th, prompted dread.
but south a had an advantage, it had africa had an advantage, it had time, weeks to watch the virus ad around the rest of the world, to watch other countries’ takes.
at this stage in africa, the virus was spreading slowly.
but soon south did start to see an africa did start to see an exponential rise, just like britain, ugh here the government was already reacting much quicker, sing a lockdown eight days imposing a lockdown just eight days after recording the 100th infection.
uth africa’s lockdown was far stricter too.
therve now screened more than 3 ion people for the new virus.
tomorrow, , south africa will start to lockdown.
and so a five ease its lockdown.
so, yes, south africa has a blinder so far, particularly the president, but the ranks, the key lower down the ranks, the key institutions that are going to have waging this battle against virus for months to come have weakened by years of corruption ronyism.
as the ockdown softens, the certainty that the infection ill start to climb.
more than seven million children are at risk of hunger in afghanistan, says the international charity save the children, as food prices soar during a coronavirus lockdown.
the charity says a third of all afghans will face food shortages this month due to the pandemic.
afghanistan has so far recorded nearly 2,200 cases of covid—19 and 64 deaths.
but in a war—torn country with a weak health system and little testing, it’s feared the real numbers may be much higher.
even before covid—19, anistan deemed to be one of afghanistan was deemed to be one of the most dangerous places in the to be a child — with this world to be a child - with this pandemic, what is it like now?
and then when the virus struck, and you have a kdown in a place when you have a lockdown in a place like afghanistan, with so much of opulation, including working treet children, they depend on wages, $1 ay, and when they don’t get that, no means no ood to eat, and so therefore that this warning is being sounded hat a third of the population, luding 7 million children, could and could die of tarvation.
so if aid comes in, ther within the country or from tside, is there an effective tribution system for that, and concerned are international arities like save the children at, in this time of pandemic, when peopla are orried about where ages will be oming from, whether pla are willing to donate?
the headlines on news: the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated we may find out more today about whether the football season can restart in britain.
the government is hosting a video call with the football association and premier league, along with medical experts from rugby union, cricket and racing, to discuss when and how to return to sporting action.
there is also concern about the availability of testing and whether a return will place unnecessary extra pressure on public services.
it would be really difficult for the police to keep people apart and maintain social distancing, so i think it is a nonstarter.
since the lockdown began nearly six weeks ago.
and while bringing a child into the world should be a moment ofjoy, the shadow of covid—19 has loomed large.
are allowed one birthing partner in the labour suite with them, provided they are not showing any symptoms.
it is nice that not everything about lockdown has been negative for these new parents.
i went into hospital, and i had the most amazing experience in hospital.
babies will continue to be born in lockdown, and while for now they must wait to see grandparents, extended family and friends, we will have stories too to tell our little ones about their moment in history.
most people in the would not want to go out, even if the government officially ends the lockdown in a month’s time, according to a new survey.
scientists in the have identified the highest levels of microplastics ever recorded on the seafloor, after studying sediment pulled from the bottom of the mediterranean sea.
mixed into those mounds are millions of tiny pieces of plastic, and scientists have now measured the extent of this sea—bed pollution.
that enable scientists to track how the currents carry plastic waste out to sea, where it breaks down.
the fragile ecosystems on the seafloor depend on the nutrients and oxygen flushed in through the ocean currents.
the tribute song will aid the world health organization’s solidarity fund to fight covid—19.
queen and their front man, adam lambert, each filmed their parts in isolation — a far from the recording studios they are all used to.
because you are the champions it’s hoped the remake will help inspire front line workers as they lead the struggle against this pandemic.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
the pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
and a musical tribute for the champions of the pandemic — queen say the proceeds will go to global health charities.
the government says they are confident that they have hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus the government says they are confident that they have hit their own target for the number of daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline — was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests — to be met by the end of april — had been set by the the ’s health secretary, matt hancock.
worldwide — the aviation industry has been hugely affected by the global lockdown — with budget airline ryanair announcing they are cutting up to three thousand pilot and cabin crewjobs — as they restructure to cope with the coronavirus pandemic.
meanwhile in the — president trump said he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory, but provided no details.
the national intelligence director’s office say covid—19 "was not manmade or genetically modified" and china rejects the theory.
in other developments — the united nations secretary general antonio guterres has expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
we’ll have more on the global response to the pandemic shortly — but first this report from our news correspondent - dan johnson.
and here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus, heroes can be patients too.
west midlands police chief superintendent, phil dolby, spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
also bouncing back, the prime minister, with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope i can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past the peak of this disease.
we are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
across the , the virus has taken someone special from 26,771 families.
more than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
so it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
the infection rate and the number of people each of us passes the virus to must stay below one.
testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
remember where this all started, it was matt hancock wanting testing up because at the tart it was about patients, ff, etc, so that people could go ack to rk.
now bility for testing has expanded eligibility for testing has expanded quite widely to key workers.
but now the of testing sort of changes as go into the next phase.
this is having a mass testing infrastructure in place so that when rrent lockdown measures ease testing can be used eventually stop tbreaks spreading rapidly and widely from communities.
50 vidual patients with coronavirus be olated, their context aste, and esting can then be put to place.
the government will say he target was all about that the target was all about getting the machine rolling and ing the testing capacity up.
it looks like we’ll either meet the target or come close, and so we will have very significantly increased it looks like we’ll either meet the target or come close, and so we will have very significantly increased the amount of testing in this country i think from 2000 tests a day at the end of february to 10,000 tests a day at the end of march to either 100,000 at the end of april or quite close to it.
a lot of questions cing him about how, if not one, lockdown will be lifted.
now remember that icially the measures have to be eviewed every three weeks by law.
i think that will be an interesting aspect of how to ince people that even if the ata says the virus isn’t ansmitting widely, and that it is ally safe to go out again, will opla obey people obey those instructions?
talk of quarantine measures ing introduced at airports.
talk schools and businesses will have to follow social distancing in the same way as essential ervices and schools, schools are open for key workers, at the ment.
the president donald trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory.
his own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating how the virus began, but have determined covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab, although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
he told reporters either china couldn’t stop the virus from spreading, or it didn’t to.
whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed as a biological weapon, the intelligence community didn’t contradict the president’s theory, saying: this country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more than 60,000 deaths.
the virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy, leading to long lines in cities such as houston, as people queue for free food.
although he’s avoided direct criticism of china’s president xi, with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, president trump has talked of making china pay for the harm the virus has caused to the american economy and, by extension, to his chances of re—election.
let’s hear more now on theories as to how the coronavirus originated in the chinese city of wuhan.
the institute of virology there studies infectious diseases linked to bats and china says any allegations of a leak are unfounded.
they ruled out that this was a -made us, that it was some man-made virus, that it was some sort of bio weapon that had been ashed or escaped, but they arefully said that they were still ing at other possibilities, ncluding that it was an entirely ral outbreak, in other words from a market or it was a leak from .
talk us about the story there could be nage on the way, regarding the research into a vaccine for coronavirus.
basically, there going on internationally to and make this vaccine and rstand what might be able to use treat the coronavirus.
in some cases they are collaborating, there is a competition here.
the headlines on news the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
the pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
meanwhile european budget airline ryanair has said it may shed up to 3,000 jobs as it restructures to cope with the pandemic.
if a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger, if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper cuts into the future.
the civil aviation authority ning airlines they have to is warning aidines they have to adhere to the rules.
he rules for ights are instead.
how likely is it, you think, simon, that the tine ine industry will return to what was efore the pandemic?
india has more than 35,000 cases of coronavirus so far, and more than 1100 people have died of the infection.
the country has been in lockdown for nearly six weeks now.
and while doctors say it has slowed the spread of covid—19, it’s also meant that millions who depend on daily wages in the country are facing extremely difficult times.
this man has recovered from covid in the southern state of kerala.
more populous than canada, the region had the first coronavirus infections in march, but it curbed the spread, and its strategy is giving hope to the rest of the country.
once we identified all of them, the next strategy was to ensure home quarantine in the strictest possible sense.
and while the real scale is hard to assess, doctors say covid would have spread a lot more quickly if india had not imposed a lockdown relatively early.
people are only allowed to go out to buy essential items, and you could even get arrested for violating the lockdown, which is perhaps one of the most stringent in the world.
calls to ease the restrictions are growing louder.
as you go out of lockdown, it has to be first of all a phased release after lockdown, and many countries are now putting in place systems of how they will do that, and the monitoring testing is going to be extremely important
so at any time if there is an alert or a red flag that things are not looking so good, again, more strict measures may have to be put in place.
the nationwide lockdown is due to end soon.
in the early stages of the pandemic, both britain and south africa followed a near identical path of infections.
but with just over 100 so far dead and no more than a few hundred patients infected in hospital, its death rate has been staggeringly low in comparison to the .
in a land of furious inequality and habitual misrule the virus was always going to cause chaos here in south africa.
in the overcrowded townships around johannesburg, news of covid—19’s arrival, the first confirmed case was march the 5th, prompted dread.
weeks to watch the virus spread around the rest of the world, and to watch other countries’ mistakes.
at this stage in south africa, the virus was spreading slowly.
but soon south africa did start to see an exponential rise, just like britain, although here the government was already reacting much quicker, imposing a lockdown just eight days after recording the hundredth infection.
and south africa’s lockdown was far stricter, too.
they’ve now screened more than 3 million people for the new virus.
tomorrow, south africa will start to ease its lockdown.
but lower down the ranks of the key institutions that are going to have to keep waging this battle against the virus for months to come have been weakened by years of corruption and cronyism.
and as the lockdown softens, the near certainty that the infection rate will start to climb.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
the european budget airline ryanair announces it plans to cut 3000 jobs, as part of restructuring because of the virus.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
covid—19 is absolutely no laughing matter — but a group of doctors in germany has managed to raise a smile nevertheless, whilst making a deadly serious point covid—19 is absolutely no laughing matter — but a group of doctors in germany has managed to raise a smile nevertheless, whilst making a deadly serious point about the lack of personal protective equipment.
we want only covid-19 patients.
how keen were fellow doctors and other care practitioners to share their test photos with you?
quickly afterwards i had some others join and then went viral i am here.
we also seem processed in which was really affected by coronavirus especially in rare.
the united nations secretary general antonio guterres has expressed his disappointment at the lack of leadership from major world powers during the coronavirus pandemic.
you have described covid—19 as the biggest challenge facing the world since the second world war.
have you been surprised and shocked by the immense scale of deaths and the immense scale of the economic disruption?
shocked, obviously, and it is dramatic to see so many people dying and dramatic to see this devastating impact on economies and societies, especially on the most vulnerable people, but not surprised because, unfortunately, what is true is that the world was not able to come together and to face covid—19 in an articulated, co—ordinated way.
different countries with different perspectives, different strategies and this has allowed the virus to spread.
are you talking about the great power rivalry between the united states and china, this propaganda war that has erupted since covid—19 became a pandemic?
i think we are the united nations ally come into force will be the covid-19 covery.
the post covid-19 recovery.
the crisis has demonstrated problems of existing economy, with the agitimacy of our international titutions and of course without ure to combat climate change by the united nations will help ene and coordinate and enable that recovery.
we are in the 75th anniversary year united nations and it is a of the united nations and it is a time and the covid—19 crisis has entrated minds on what concentrated minds on what united nations is four and one of the to do is provide rovide burden sharing process where there re able to put the shoulders was more able to put the shoulders to the wheel can that should not here is a crisis of legitimacy hat comes with those more able to tribute the only ones seem to be to make decisions that ape the organisation.
ike the united nations as also sted to enable states to coordinate more closely and in times he covid sea and if that and hen different countries.
the pact on the thing the restrictions he infection rate of covid—19 ough the ench population —— through the french population -- might earty to say that the crisis er.
in china, the country where the global coronavirus crisis first hit, the authorities are now lifting restrictions on people’s movements at an ever more rapid rate.
it shows that people are still worried about the possibility of contracting the coronavirus.
here in beijing we have been living under the virus for so long, more than three months, these changes now feel a little sudden.
for example, in the open now i don’t have to wear a mask.
crucially, if somebody comes into beijing from another part of china, apart from these hotspots like wuhan where coronavirus started, they don’t have to do two weeks’ quarantine any more.
it’s like tourism with social distancing.
what everybody is worried about, though, is the possibility of a second wave of the viruss coming along and swamping all of this freedom.
the headlines on news the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 the pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
yemen has recorded its first two deaths linked to coronavirus, raising fears of a devastating outbreak in the war—ravaged country.
according to local media, the victims were brothers who died in the same hospital in the separtist controlled port of aden.
the has warned there’s a high chance other cases are circulating undetected.
the southern port city has been put into a three—day lockdown, after the first reported deaths of covid—19.
if this epidemic spreads here, we will die like locusts.
the curfew will be enforced by the southern transitional council, a separatist group which took control of the city last weekend.
after six years of civil war, 20 million yemenis do not have access to adequate health care, famine is rife, and hospitals are ill—equipped to deal with a full—blown pandemic.
the has warned there is a high chance the virus is circulating in crowded areas undetected, but the rebel houthi movement which controls the city says all suspected cases have returned negative.
official cases are still low, but the saudi—backed government has issued a plea to all citizens, regardless of their political alliance, to take the outbreak seriously.
: we are calling on yemenis to take preventative measures and to stop gatherings in public markets and attending friday prayers during these exceptional circumstances.
scientists have identified the highest levels of microplastics ever recorded on the seafloor.
mixed into those mounds are millions of tiny pieces of plastic, and scientists have now measured the extent of this sea—bed pollution.
that enabled scientists to track how the currents carry plastic waste out to sea, where it breaks down.
there are fragile ecosystems on the sea floor that depend on the nutrients and oxygen flushed in through the ocean currents.
scientists from the british antarctic survey, in another study published this week, reveal plastic pollution was reaching the shores of some of the most remote islands.
and premier league along with medical experts from rugby union, cricket and racing to discuss the aspects of a return to sporting action.
there is also concern about the availability of testing and whether a return will place unnecessary extra pressure on public services.
it would be really difficult for the police to keep people apart and maintain social distancing, so i think it is a nonstarter.
the tribute song will aid the world health organization’s solidarity fund to fight covid—19.
queen and their front man, adam lambert, each filmed their parts in isolation — a far from the recording studios they are all used to.
because you are the champions it’s hoped the remake will help inspire front line workers as they lead the struggle against this pandemic.
the coronavirus pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces three thousand job losses.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
and a musical tribute for the champions of the pandemic — queen say the proceeds will go to global health charities.
we’re covering all the latest coronavirus developments here in britain and globally.
first the global lockdown is having a devastating on airlines around the world.
one of the world’s biggest carriers — ryanair — says it’s cutting 3,000 pilot and cabin crewjobs — as they restructure to cope with the impact of the pandemic.
meanwhile the government says it is confident that it has hit its own target for 10,000 daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline.
in the — president trump said he’s seen evidence coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory, but provided no details.
the national intelligence director’s office say covid—19 "was not manmade or genetically modified" and china rejects the theory.
we’ll have more on the global response to the pandemic shortly — but first ryanair boss — michael o’leary — spoke to the earlier — and told us he expects passenger numbers to be down a third this year.
if a vaccine is found clearly the recovery will be stronger, if a vaccine isn’t found we may have to announce more cuts and deeper cuts into the future.
there are checks in place by public health england.
the government says it is confident that it will hit its own target for the number of daily coronavirus tests to be carried out by yesterday’s deadline — as the prime minister told the nation that the the was now "past the peak" of the outbreak.
the target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests — to be met by the end of april — had been set by the the ’s health secretary, matt hancock.
and here’s a reminder that, in the crossfire of coronavirus, heroes can be patients too.
west midlands police chief superintendent, phil dolby, spent more than two weeks on a ventilator.
also bouncing back, the prime minister, with his own reasons to be thankful and a message of hope i can confirm today that, for the first time, we are past the peak of this disease.
we are past the peak and we are on the downward slope.
across the , the virus has taken someone special from 26,771 families.
more than 15,000 people are in hospital, trying to shake it off.
so it is still too early to lift the lockdown.
the infection rate and the number of people each of us passes the virus to must stay below one.
testing numbers have dogged the government’s response.
the ’s health and social care select committee of has this morning met to discuss how vital services are maintained during the coronavirus epidemic.
a superhuman effort by staff to the show on the road because, of course, despite the coronavirus are still having babies, peopla are still having babies, peopla are still getting cancer, are are still having mental people are still having mental health problems.
and a strong sage ople should come forward message peopla should come forward if they worry if they have health itions other than covid—19 because all of these other things to be treated.
there question here, it might be the health secretary who needs to answer but do you have any idea where the government hasn’t chosen to keep gular hospitals in place for ose essential services, and send covid—19 cases to the ightingale hospitals, which were remarkably quickly but haven’t been used?
it is a logical tion to ask, and actually the has followed a version of that tegy for cancer care where they re sentially trying to designate cancer centres completely lean, so you can go to your radiotherapy tment knowing it is a covid—19 free environment.
the president of the royal college of gency medicine point out would be a disastrous step ckwards because you could then go to “ and catch coronavirus.
what of funding the going to sort offunding is the going to need after the lockdown ends to re that it isn’t going to take and years to catch up with ese other essential treatments, some doctors have warned will which some doctors have warned will be the case?
but coronavirus going to create additional sures on mental health services, so, pressures like social isolation, a being on their own for long periods of time.
the government says it is pretty confident it will have hed the target of 100,000 covid—19 tests a day by the end of l, which yesterday, of april, which was yesterday, of course.
first of all, it is a big achievement if we hit it, even if we get near it, because biggest single thing that has opped us being like south korea, seems to be the country that as been the best in the world at ling coronavirus.
the testing capacity is ore complex, however.
the eadlines: the coronavirus pandemic continues to devastate the aviation industry — european budget carrier ryanair announces 3000 job losses.
the government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
president donald trump says he’s seen evidence that suggests coronavirus originated in a chinese laboratory.
his own intelligence agencies have said they’re still investigating how the virus began, but have determined covid—19"was not manmade or genetically modified".
did the deadly coronavirus emanate from here?
trump says he’s seen evidence linking the virus to the lab, although he wouldn’t be drawn on what that evidence consisted of.
he told reporters either china couldn’t stop the virus from spreading, or it didn’t to.
whilst laying to rest one of the more extreme conspiracy theories surrounding the virus, that it was man—made and unleashed as a biological weapon, the intelligence community didn’t contradict the president’s theory, saying: this country has already seen more cases of the coronavirus than anywhere else in the world, overa million, and more than 60,000 deaths.
the virus has also devastated what was once a booming economy, leading to long lines in cities such as houston, as people queue for free food.
although he’s avoided direct criticism of china’s president xi, with whom he’s maintained cordial relations, president trump has talked of making china pay for the harm the virus has caused to the american economy and, by extension, to his chances of re—election.
in the global battle against coronavirus, personal protective equipment, or , is of course essential for frontline workers.
however, healthcare workers are saying that even the smallest sizes are too big for some women — who make up well over two thirds of the national health service workforce.
the asks are too big to get and that the fundamental int of the mask.
you need a good in order to protect you from virus reaching your respiratory ways.
hearing from a lot of women at they are not able to find any sks, or that there is only one of mask that fits them because is the only small one.
antibody tests could be a key weapon in the battle to conquer coronavirus, by showing whether someone has already had it — and developed signs of immunity.
they work by using a drop of blood on a device that works a bit like a pregnancy test.
but so far no home antibody test has proved reliable enough to be used.
we were expecting that britain would have millions of antibody tests.
the ity is that it was very much ased on lots of things going right, hen it comes to this rapid and when it comes to this rapid test, unfortunately, lots of things wrong.
but are antibody tests to be so important, in your going to be so important, in your view, as we to get out of these down restrictions, and, lockdown restrictions, and, hopefully, get on top of the emic?
at the moment the pandemic?
at the moment the assumption is if you have the virus ody will have made antibodies, which are the molecules that allow body to recognise the your body to then recognise the virus if you come into contact with in and then fight it off very quickly and efficiently.
in terms hat we already know, if you had recent infection this antibody is ely to protect you, at least for the shorter term, for an ction.
if we can check, if we ran screen eople and see if they this protective immunity, then an put this ack into informing olicy, or ybe informing individual lives.
because if i have fection, i’ve had the antibodies, they are effective, we eliable test, that would lead had a reliable test, that would lead me to safely assume i was being ected and that i would not get the virus
and i would not contribute eading the virus further.
how important is it, then, that we have of approaches at the end of this pandemic, or to to bring about.
i’m thinking the antibodies test, yes, which isn’t bla, e, but also a vaccine and an reliabla, but also a vaccine and an antiviral which could bring about a a hastening of a recovery from covid—19.
it’s astic that as scientists and linicians we are tackling the virus of these different on all of these different directions.
a vaccine is fantastic but it also needs time.
onest, we also know that some eopla might not able to be vaccinated because of underlying health conditions, immunity, etc.
the european budget airline ryanair announces it plans to cut 3,000 jobs, as part of restructuring because of the virus.
the british government says it’s confident it’s target of 100,000 daily coronavirus tests by the end of april has been met.
president trump says he’s seen evidence coronavirus orginated in a chinese laboratory — but gives no details.
is ery ifficult to the that is very difficult to the national health service where pay the country is covered by uniform and establish pay bands.
he first ister of wales are no residential and care home workers going to a cash bonus of are going to get a rash bonus of £500 to five on their work ing the coronavirus pandemic and has called on the government not tax the bonus on reduce welfare payments they might receive sult.
the first minister of scotland, nicola sturgeon is holding the daily coronavirus briefing in edinburgh, let’s go to that now.
that is a significant increase in capacity and i pay ute to all those who have worked so hard to achieve it both in scotland loud and in the vernment testing network.
what matters is the lume testing we do and the clinical objections —— objectives testing.
we are also working to increase the number of tests ied out but also to extend carried out but also to extend categories protesting in a way that equips us to the virus.
-- suppress the virus.
fluctuations aily demand ill never perfectly match the number of tests to apacity protesting at a very clinical reasons many people more than one test so the number of carried out will never equal he number of people tested.
capacity is now expanded significantly that means we can ther tend eligibility for further extend eligibility for testing which i will come unto lotte.
tests in hospitals and care homes the community i can confirm re were 2537 tests carried yesterday and in otal since the start of the outbreak to tests have been carried out.
in addition, 2124 tests were ied out yesterday with a regional drive through testing res.
these figures are not be eviously included in our aily figures that will be from now on because this is data coming to from the wide system it will few more days until we ran break it down into positive and tive tests.
22,a00 key workers and heir family bers have been their family members have now been tested within the system and 4000 of these are in the last eek alone.
given the increases in acity we have seen in the past eek and to ensure we are fully lising that capacity it is ear we are and are able to end eligibility for testing further so to know to turn to these next steps.
as we know tackling the spread of the virus is an urgent rity everywhere but particularly ight now in care homes.
currently of our care homes have currently 4096 of our rare homes have of he virus in them.
we already test those showing and rare home staff.
we now intend to undertake an enhanced eak investigation and all care outbreak investigation and all rare homes where there are any cases of virus ich will involve testing subject to the consent of ividuals all residents and staff ther or not they have symptoms.
addition aware care home without gours part of a on a chain rigours part of a group on a chain and staff may still move between erent homes will also carry out urgent testing in any linked homes.
also begin sampling we will also begin sampling testing and care homes where there are no s.
by definition there’s lots of testing residents and staff who not symptomatic.
—— this will an testing.
is mean testing.
this is that significant operational task and we underestimate the logistics and the orkforce required now we the increased testing capacity will make it happen as swiftly as ractical.
jill young, who you will recall as the chief executive of the a jordan ospital has agreed to louisa jordan hospital has agreed to ad the team.
i’m also able onfirm an extension to igibility for testing through the wide ing ystem and the drive booking system and the drive through a mobile testing centres.
as of now expanding eligibility we are expanding eligibility to include all those over the age of 65 oms and their households and and their households and in addition to key workers were ady eligible through the system anyone, i have stressed should not be many peopla this group, who a key worker but is required to home to go to work.
if there is test through the system.
we intend to work flexibly between the testing two testing systems, the wide system and our own system ion would make the most of total capacity we have.
over the month we have made significant strides in our testing capacity.
over tests were carried out 4000 tests were carried out yesterday and now we have that ease and increasing capacity we are able to announce a further nsion of testing in care homes and ose within the general ublic you ran ccess a test.
this pansion of testing that i set out day is separate and distinct our move to establish a test trace ate system.
as part of our approach to changing and efully leave it in the long measures are continuing to suppress the vims.
but i should stress that roach will require us to ncrease our testing capacity even further he levels i have been able to eport today.
in a moment the health etary will set out one final iece of information about testing is very important and that is use of antibody testing.
before i want to end by stressing that testing is really important as part efforts to tackle this virus.
it remains the case that right now most important we are doing is staying at thing we are all doing is staying at home and following the g—term rules.
i will hand over the cabinet secretary o, antibody testing that three of us uding the chief medical officer will take as usual.
so much you’re ing about the antibody testing.
the test icates whether a person must add he infection by looking at the body is signed by people a produced esponse to the cited odies.
results are analysed against ider population samples to ablish the incidence of covid—19.
been gathering samples in we have been gathering samples in anticipation of fully valid antibody eing available.
to ensure atibility with data we will be using a similar methodology at of public health england.
alth protection scotland anticipates this testing will start 6th of may which is next of the 6th of may which is next wednesday and will run for at least what this then gives us is information from testing over 16 week period started the middle of going forward.
the serology work provides statistically robust ates of the ship of the population that has developed bodies including those who have not been showing or have only experienced mild symptoms.
it is important to stress this is ulation level, we have some way go before we have an antibody in place which can be used on a widespread of the widespread basis of the clinical testing of individuals.
it adds to the formation already being collected about more severe illnesses three community testing with who have mild—to—moderate ptoms.
erhaps the simplest way to derstand this is what i reported you is diagnosing for the mebody has the virus in the an eye which supported for obvious ons.
the cabinet secretary has utlined in the form of antibody ting so that will hopefully uild a picture of the numbers who have had the virus in the past what extent they have immunity esult of that.
i was asking are we passed the peak of coronavirus is boris johnson esting his news conference yesterday?
—— cannot test.
hould she be eligible a for a test?
there are key workers ook a est and through the ran book a test and through the drive-through centres.
i think we are seeing positive signs gress against the spires, of progress against the spires, principally in terms of the ction in the numbers of people see in intensive care and abilisation of the as you today is still got rates of hospital issions that tells us the ransmission of the virus of reduced estimates of the all-important our numbers.
the effort is to flatten the when the effort is to ﬂatten the curve as we have been trying to is not necessarily a single or ven a couple of days, we have an vated path of this virus.
i want people began the message i want people to hear loudly and clearly so that we not our foot off the gas and do not take our foot off the gas and think we are past the danger starts to ease up and find we’re another peak that this may be a lot higher than the one we tired.
subtle shifts in ay people are behaving could in the way peopla are behaving could cad us back into the exponential in cases resort beforehand and uld take us back to a new high infections that you create another peak within the system so i would be very cautious in saying uld be through the peak at the ment.
there are encouraging signs ecline in cases
i stay home in our own house rules —— in our own seholds are breaking the chain transmission of the virus.
every me anyone of — to see one time anyone of us -- to see one or two people more than we are supposed ifferent households we are creating a bridge if you like that ran hop cross that is what virus ran hop across that is what we have to stay separate from each and stay with our household oups so those bridges are there the bias cannot hop from one nother that is what to another
but the more we start to put these bridges together again, reater the risk that the virus runs out of control.
it has been almost seven since the world health organization said test, test, test.
it aken so long to extent has it taken so long to extent testing capacity?
and i have had huge respect for since i was health secretary in ling with the swine flu pandemic, but it gives to all
but it gives advice to all countries are very different stages of lopment and capacities and ub“: public health infrastructure.
what have is build an approach we have done is build an approach that is right for our cumstances and we have taken steps to build city of testing that then allows us to expand eligibility for testing rocess as you saw in the that process as you saw in the figures i give you today, the of progress we have made, i said eartier on at the start of their we we can process 350 per day and ran argue 4000 tests per ay.
nicola sturgeon announced another a0 peopla in scotland have died after been been confirmed as having been confirmed as having covid—19 taking the total to 1000 eopla who have died.
more questions bout the reliability he test.
