borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month.
the government’s intention to ease if you want to get in touch about the new restrictions coming in in england, or any of today’s other stories, do get in touch.
for the latest news and analysis borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons today.
he’s expected to stress the government’s intention to ease the new restrictions after a month.
the prime minister announced on saturday that strict measures will be imposed across england from thursday.
people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
after addressing the nation, boris johnson will today attempt to get mp5 on board with his plan for a national lockdown in england.
the prime minister is expected to again point to stark warnings from scientists that unless the government acts, deaths over the winter could be twice as bad or more than during the first wave of the pandemic.
he’ll acknowledge labour’s view that he should have acted sooner, but defend the system of regional restrictions he has pursued until now.
if these kind of measures were being taken in any totalitarian country around the world, we would be denouncing it as a form of evil.
the national lockdown will see non—essential retail closed along with pubs, bars and restaurants, except for takeaway and delivery.
after the cabinet office minister michael gove’s admission yesterday that the lockdown could continue beyond the beginning of december, the prime minister will to reassure that the end is in sight.
just a reminder that we love to hear your thoughts on any of the stories doing, whether it is about ockdown is, at the restrictions, presidential elections and so do get in touch with me on witter
-- yourquestions well, we’ve already been hearing about the new coronavirus restrictions on their way for people in england.
as england moves into this national lockdown, scotland has moved to a more localised five tier system.
and it told me this area is level three, the second highest level of restrictions.
some areas have fewer restrictions.
orkney, shetland, the western isles, murray and the highlands are under level one restrictions.
the backdrop against all of this is that the scottish government is warning that they cannot rule out a full lockdown at some later point.
however, that said, there are early indications here that the prevalence of the virus is plateauing, meaning people are still going into hospital but the rate of increase has slowed right down in those figures.
there is a hope, but not a guarantee that the national lockdown can be avoided.
wales’ first minister, mark drakeford, will set out the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’s firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
well, i think mark drakeford said from the start, and this morning, that it will not be initially on monday the ninth when we will see whether or not the firebreak has had the desired effect which is of course to reduce the rate and reduce the strain on the .
on the ninth, businesses that have been closed, hospitality, nonessential shops, leisure, will all re open and what we are hoping for today and what we will be getting today is a strategy up until christmas so the number of people that can now mix from now on until christmas and the rules on travel, what will happen in terms of people coming into wales from covid hotspots — of course england now going into a national lockdown — how will that affect wales?
will there be a travel ban coming into wales?
but what mark drakeford said this morning is there will be no going back to local restrictions in wales.
there will be a basic set of national rules in wales that will be simpler and clearer, and it will allow for something beyond what we have had during the firebreak period.
but my top message to people in wales is, don’t make your first question to yourself, "how far can i stretch the rules?
if we do that, then there is a way out of coronavirus that will safeguard us all.
it will be interesting to see logically, what one would expect today is potentially there will be a travel ban extending to the whole of england, other than for essential work reasons, childcare or some of the valid exceptional circumstances, of course.
mark drakeford has said there will be some easing of those restrictions and people will be able to meet up socially to some degree.
the hope is that this set of national restrictions today, national rules, will be able to take us all the way until christmas and the first minister here is hoping for a joint approach from the four different nations of the to agree upon something over the festive period, but potentially after that, if the numbers increase again, the government here have said all along that there is a likelihood that there would be another short, sharp firebreak again in the new year if the figures increase again after that.
but that is just part of the jigsaw of restrictions.
other restrictions are still in place.
the infection rate in northern ireland has been coming down but it is still much higher than anybody would like.
just over a fortnight ago, the devolved government here brought in a series of measures designed to deal with what at that time m: we are breaking away there from chris page to bring you news from igh court that the hollywood star johnny has lost his high ourt ibel action against the sun wspaper over an article published paper which had labelled him wife ater.
and this was johnny depp in hospital after his finger was severed during row.
more new on the reaction from national lockdown announced in england.
he is due speak to later, so what he to speak to later, so what is he going to do to to persuade those unhappy with the idea of nother lockdown that is, you know, the right way ahead?
rily from some of his own primarily from some of his own backbenchers who are worried about onomic impact of a month long lockdown in england.
hey are concerned about what pens after the 2nd of december whether at least a large swathes england will still be in very ere restrictions.
there are also on the labour benches in particular are saying the vernment ought to have acted ner, so the prime minister’s essage will be come on two fronts, ill say, yes, he acknowledges he people pressing him to go for a tional ckdown sooner, including me of his own scientific advisers, he will defend the regional pproach, trying to do his best to his under control without osing a national lockdown in the irst place.
we’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or feared.
it’s the last thing we want to do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
at number ", at number 11, saying along with number 10 that there is no choice to hat is interesting is that ome conservative are saying, lly, let’s look at this in the actually, let’s look at this in the round and what they want the cellor to do is to come up with economic impact assessment of a long lockdown in england to at the potential economic cost, obs that may be lost, the human ost, and some are also saying they more information about how the service is going to be reating other illnesses, other than over the next month.
he last night if some of these measures were introduced by a itarian country, we would be denouncing them as a form of evil.
i don’t expect when the on wednesday that the government will lose because labour een criticising the tidiness the covenant and most of their are likely to support the lockdown in england —— criticising diness.
concerns from i’ve heard over the weekend, some are ctant to rebel this week but the ncern is that this may go on and and on so that when it comes to wing these restrictions, if that what the government decides to do cember the 2nd, we might be cing a much larger rebellion and more descent than.
ryanair has reported an 80% slump in passenger numbers during the coronavirus crisis.
prince william was unwell with covid—19 earlier this year but it was not publicly announced.
palace sources have confirmed the duke of cambridge had the virus around the same time that his father prince charles was self—isolating.
the prince made no mention that he had also fallen ill with covid—19lastspring, but paid tribute to workers.
the devastating impact of the coronavirus pandemic has workers who have gone far beyond the call of duty this year.
kensington palace is giving no official comment or confirmation but a palace source told the that a story in today’s sun newspaper that the prince had shown of covid—19 around a week into the national lockdown last spring is accurate.
news of his father’s covid—19 infection was made public.
borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month.
in just a few days’ time, england’s second national lockdown will be brought in and the whole country will be facing much tighter restrictions.
the government says they must do this to halt the spread of coronavirus and save lives — but what’s the reaction in towns where infection rates have been relatively low?
and is one more place that has endured covid.
so when you ask people in winchester what they think of this week’s new lockdown, the first thing you hear is resigned weariness.
but places like winchester in the south of england haven’t seen the kinds of covid numbers areas in the north have experienced.
here in winchester, the figure is running at about 135 cases per 100,000 people.
but compare that to a town in the north of similar size, say, preston, and there, the figure is more like 464 cases per 100,000 people.
and that’s many here, it’s hard tojudge numbers, think an england wide lockdown isn’t right.
i still think it’s a bit unfair on the south, when the cases down here are quite low in comparison the north.
to lockdown the whole country, i don’t know that it’s a good idea.
from thursday, we’re all on the lockdown again.
and although covid’s footprint does very widely across the country, it’s a collective response that will once again be the nation’s new direction of travel.
just looking through tweets she had been sending me on a similar theme report there from duncan, one ewer says we are furious in east ssex, the count is low, we have yed the rules.
lockdown is unnecessary in the south.
steve , have care homes been says, have rare homes been forgotten, my mother is locked away rare ome
borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons today.
the prime minister is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month despite a suggestion by the cabinet office minister michael gove that it could last longer.
some conservative backbenchers are threatening to vote against the measures.
we are at a quarter of the death rate, over 250, of the first wave of his and doubling times of about two each, that takes us up to the eak of eartier the year.
over ,000 peak of earlier in the year.
the numbers have been very, very consistent over a number of weeks, mber of cases going up, the number of rases going up, spreading to older and the more erable generations, we know people of all generations are eptible to some of the non—disease—macro like ran can be very debilitating over which ran be very debilitating over long periods.
50 the evidence is ere, the way this can’t be there, the only way this can’t be stopped is by preventing the virus eaping from one person to from leaping from one person to another, that involves social ancing.
i’m sure you would agree much as the next person, a series kdown is is by no means ideal of lockdown is is by no means ideal
the last lockdown was all bout flattening the curve, that was hrase we ard over and over the phrase we heard over and over again and certainly this lockdown about cutting the numbers of deaths and stopping the from overwhelmed but is this being overwhelmed but is this lockdown going to be able to achieve han that?
what we need is get the number of cases to do is get the number of rases down so we need to get this roduction number below one.
and hat was achieved the first time and actually the cases came own very well but the brakes were off a bit too much, if you like, and so was able to come back.
and of we do need to get them down and of course, one of the reasons we are this very aggressively is because there is the prospect of treatments and we are already better position in that your ance of surviving if you end up in tensive care significantly better efore and there is the than before and there is the prospect of antibody treatments and nes.
is the 2nd of december december doable int exit this new lockdown and what needs to happen to actually hat work?
we are not going to be to return to social life as it before coronavirus.
so there need to be measures after december, the 2nd of december and, ly, the only way we’re going to out is what the numbers of and see they change.
but in terms of vernment policy, health policy, he test and trace system, what needs to happen there?
when the rnment is ked about this the government is asked about this the answer tends to focus on the testing arty, arly, even if testing is but dearty, even if testing is ramped up and there is mass testing ster testing, that doesn’t preclude the trace part of the needing to work as well stop i’d like to get your thoughts on .
the ola point of esting is that you something with the test result.
so, obviously, it is important test peopla they can elf—isolate but it’s equally ortant hat we are then able to trace their contacts so they can be as well and also isolate for eriod of time.
and it’s the reason for trying to get the bers down because we know when he numbers are very large it’s very icult for even the best test and trace systems in the world to stay of it.
they’ve had to ntroduce measures at a rather tier stage because they realise eir est and tracing capacity was verwhelmed.
do you think more needs done to make it easier for people to ay at home, if they are ound to positive, because there ave been a variety of figures, some not very encouraging, on the umber of people who even if they een told they are a contact of omeone positive or have tested itive, don’t isolate for a riety of reasons?
yes, avoid a cycle of lockdown?
just hearing in the few oments the german defence minister is self quarantining after ing she came into contact with he person who tested positive d-19, hat has just been covid—19, that has just been announced by the german defence stry.
at test on herself has ome back negative
but she is self rantining after learning she came to contact with a person who sted positive for coronavirus.
more new on the new lockdown restrictions due to come into force across england on thursday.
everyone will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons, and pubs, restaurants, non—essential shops and will be told to close.
the impact on your ess of this lockdown will be good morning.
think that your sector, the do you think that your sector, the gymnasium sector, should be subject same restrictions as many other sectors, like pubs, taurants
have you had any cases of transmission at any your 13 gymnasiums?
in terms of transmission rases, we ave had one case at gymnasium the whole period which we went through the normal dures that we would need to do, outside of that, we have run the nasiums normal, we had all the gymnasiums as normal, we had all the normal precautions and, being covid an environment, we are save as an environment, we are dealing with children from four to 12 years old, we are in sector that is typically seen as low risk to start with.
but we want to he right thing by what the overnment restrictions are as well.
with, obviously, the prime minister ping that the lockdown be xited on the 2nd of december was no absolute guarantees, i guess?
the furlough that is all fine.
the furlough scheme really helps us make sure we keep those staff on and keep them employed and if we can viously a clear end date obviously see a clear and date insight that we are reopening back ember, hopefully, when erything should be good for us, we seen a good bounce back from he previous lockdown
from harry on twitter who says is the government expecting ersity students to do this time are there any guarantees we will lowed to travel home at hristmas even if lockdown is ended?
back in a pre—covid existence, decca music executives approached the community of enclosed sisters with an idea for an album — blending their plainchant with a 21st—century chilled—out vibe, perfectly designed for headphone—wearing masses looking for a moment of escape.
fortunately, all but one of the recording sessions was completed before england’s first lockdown hit, and the composers had enough material to make the album.
the headlines at 11: borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month.
scotland’s new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force, with edinburgh, glasgow and the central belt facing controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
and new restrictions for wales — later today the first minister will set out his plans for when the country’s firebreak lockdown ends next monday.
business in england faces more restrictions, the describes a lockdown is a real blow for firms.
borisjohnson will urge today to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
he’s expected to stress the government’s intention to ease the new restrictions after a month.
the prime minister announced on saturday that strict measures will be imposed across england from thursday.
people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
elsewhere, scotland has moved into its new five—tier system of restrictions this morning.
this afternoon, to to win over some tories who are threatening to vote against the lockdown in england.
conference as concerns mount over the impact of upcoming restrictions.
after addressing the nation, boris johnson will today attempt to get mp5 on board with his plan for a national lockdown in england.
the prime minister is expected to again point to stark warnings from scientists that unless the government acts, deaths over the winter could be twice as bad or more than during the first wave of the pandemic.
he’ll acknowledge labour’s view that he should have acted sooner, but defend the system of regional restrictions he has pursued until now.
if these kind of measures were being taken in any totalitarian country around the world, we would be denouncing it as a form of evil.
the national lockdown will see non—essential retail closed along with pubs, bars and restaurants, except for takeaway and delivery.
after the cabinet office minister michael gove’s admission yesterday that the lockdown could continue beyond the beginning of december, the prime minister will to reassure that the end is in sight.
as jonathan was saying, not everyone in nservative party is happy with this lockdown.
he would have preferred to announce the lockdown this rnoon rather than saturday, but inks to newspapers and broadcasters his hand.
could there be for example an economic assessment done impact of a months long lockdown in england?
in addition to that, i think lso has to convince people that has some kind of plan that this not be either a continuing cle of lockdowns or that the isting lockdown on december the will be either extended or in eality facto extended by putting the whole country or almost perhaps the whola country or almost all of it in these tier 3 trictions for a longer period in mn-up to christmas.
we’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or feared.
it’s the last thing we want to do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
so, united front from number ten and number 11 downing st, arguing that restrictions are absolute you ecessary.
what we hear from our this fternoon is that the vernment is doing perhaps too ttle too late and they should have a lockdown much earlier in land to incide with the october alf term, but none the less, they support the restrictions that re being introduced which means vote on this on wednesday, ill definitely go through.
but i think it will be far re likely that greater numbers of nservative will express content if there is any extension beyond the month long lockdown.
at this stage, i think there will be concerns expressed by the overnment will get its measures ough.
i wonder what your reaction is to the ncement of this latest lockdown for doctor you understand where the nment is coming from?
we do ally understand how cases are calculated and projections that we or forecasts that we have of cases and deaths are ctually quite exaggerated.
isn’t there assertion that a lockdown does educe the spread of infections and efore the number of deaths?
because what you have to do, you would have to a state or a nation or an area some kind of restrictions and one without restrictions and then re them.
the increasing number of trictions, all patchwork, ubung restrictions, all patchwork, doubling and sometimes very unclear, that kind of interpretation very difficult.
the orecasts that we see and that we shown are all about the ojected benefits or restrictions.
isn’t death still too many deaths?
the question ecomes wider, if you want to widen question, it becomes as follows, going to use restrictions very winter?
if we have a very bad infection this season, are we ing to start using restrictions ere?
because this is the logic is behind applying restrictions.
restrictions.
wales’s first minister, mark drakeford, will set out the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’s firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
people in wales have been told to stay at home except for exercise and essential journeys.
well, there will be a basic set of national rules in wales which will be simpler and clearer and it will allow for something beyond what we have had during the firebreak period.
but my top message to people in wales is do not make your first question to yourself, "how far can i stretch the rules?
if we do that, then there is a way out of coronavirus that will safeguard us all.
if we play it as a game, in which yourjob is to think about what the rules are and see how far you can stretch it, then i am afraid the weeks ahead will be very difficult indeed.
people in scotland are waking up to new restrictions today, as the country is split into a five—tiered system.
the new rules came into effect at six o’clock this morning.
glasgow, edinburgh and dundee are amongst the areas with strict restrictions in tier three — although no area in scotland is currently in the highest tier.
well, this afternoon on news we’ll be answering your questions on the national lockdown in england and restrictions in other parts of the .
30pm we’ll be joined by two leading public health experts.
but it was a trial here in july, just have lockdown, which tails, evelations, about the had details, revelations, about the hollywood couple, the breakdown of marriage and a difficult their marriage and a difficult marriage that it was.
and this wasjohnny depp in hospital after his finger was severed during another row.
the business secretary, alok sharma, has this morning defended the government’s decision to implement a month—long lockdown in england, telling business leaders and media "the cost of inaction would be greater than the action".
but the focus this morning was about how businesses are going to with this news that only came a ouple of days ago at this new onal lockdown starting in ngland on thursday.
the leader of said in some ways, usinesses are better placed than they were before lockdown one.
we need to recognise the covid safety of so many workplaces and keep as much of the economy open as we ran.
the trouble is, the furlough scheme ending in four weeks is tomorrow for so many businesses.
we are an open economy, we’re going to need to be able to again for our trade — for our global trade — for our recovery.
we saw the furlough is offering.
we saw the furlough scheme extended for another four from thursday.
business is rappling with the lockdown, but the picture, end of nuary the bigger picture, and of january the 1st nuary for the first is the the the transition period.
the really as the government to a deal to benefit businesses ecause it would be very hard to to cope with the pandemic, ckdown and a no deal on brexit.
staff on furlough, so it is not good for their mental l—being.
your tgoings may still be the same, but to take different measures to survive.
i mean, during ime, kids wait for santa claus and all the business owners are ing for rishi sunak and his ackage and how he is going to bail out businesses, because every time i lockdown put a dent on the business, you have to start all over again.
to start with, before the pandemic, we ree restaurants and now we had three restaurants and now we only have two fully functioning.
i do stand it is a requirement from the scientist’s point of view, we do a vaccine, i do understand all of that, but i do not think ing the economy or having a closing the economy or having a national lockdown is the answer, use if not the pandemic, it will ill us with other illnesses, mental esses, they do not have an answer of what the future holds.
the headlines: borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month.
scotland’s new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force — with edinburgh, glasgow and the central belt facing controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
and new restrictions for wales — later today the first minister will set out his plans for when the country’s firebreak lockdown ends next monday.
as business in england faces more restrictions, the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
the pandemic forced last season’s competition to be finished this season, with city coming out on top at wembley 3—1, thanks to goals from georgia stanway and janine beckie in extra time, as they lifted the trophy for the third time.
four more of their players have tested positive for covid—19, so their games against leeds rhinos on friday and salford red devils next monday are off.
the match scheduled for last friday against huddersfield was also cancelled after 13 castleford players were ruled out with coronavirus.
they’ll have two more rounds of testing this week.
we do enough problems in the courts garding cases of domestic violence hrough and whether there are things believed or not and we have an increase in libel claims, ich is only going to stand to fect to silence the victim further may be, perhaps, not to go through the court process and all of auma of having to divulge all the trauma of having to divulge all of the personal and private experiences that they have had, so i see this as a positive going forward mestic violence cases.
we’re going nto into lockdown again, you know, we still caught up with all of the have not caught up with all of the increased need in demand on our ices alone, but other services well in this arena, from a march so, you know, we are not nticipating it is going to be a in the park a month ahead, so ach out, get on google.
they can also act our services, claire walker consultancy, and seek advice port or guidance in whatever or support or guidance in whatever way, but there are lots of other ites and agencies that will till be running through lockdown
more new on the month—long national coronavirus lockdown in england starting on thursday.
let’s speak to keely weir, who’s managing director of clip ‘n climb — a climbing centre in bicester which will have to close under the new lockdown rules.
what are your thoughts, i heard they did ask the prospect of having to dose you, at the prospect of having to close questioning obviously it is sappointing.
but perhaps i may that any erent way, have ask that any different way, have 7°“- as far as you’re aware, seen any rases of infection since you ened?
everyone as been delighted to hers, with the covid measures be put in place.
so for us, we have had no cases, no on on the ack and trace app are cases on the track and trace app are anything like that —— now cases with taff.
i mean, i think the area in which you are located is seeing a ses per 00,000, which, 321 cases per 100,000, which, relatively speaking, is high.
but i understand what you’re saying that you have not seen any cases at business.
what do you need, what would help in order to survive latest lockdown?
i think for us, obviously, the first lockdown, was the financial support and there was the financial support and in place
if that lockdown does go on longer, that will make it harder and harder again because we have not got that income coming in because cannot come under the peopla cannot come under the activity.
the headlines on news borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month.
as business in england faces more restrictions the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
more new on the month—long national coronavirus lockdown in england starting on thursday.
but education unions are already concerned about the impact the virus is continuing to have on attendance — both for pupils and staff.
we so need to be really mindful of the impact, obviously, on the spread of the virus and the children and staff in our ols.
in the government on potentially ning, they’ve already said, have been saying several weeks now hat if we get into a position where prevalence of the virus is rticularty igh, secondary schools uld ould move to a rota, so possibly ing half of their pupils in a at ight
they are perhaps, some nyway, a little more concerned attendance, the number of econdary school pupils who are ting the virus, and the safety of aff as well.
we need to keep children in the school ossibly can, but we also need if we possibly ran, but we also need to make sure that we have all of safety measures in place and re prepared to move to a different tion if we need to, like rotors for example.
we also know that one things that school leaders re singularly clearly is that they need nancial support to put need more financial support to put those safety measures into their ols and colleges that they need at the moment they’re not etting it government so they are spending thousands of pounds to ure they have got hand make sure they have got hand sanitiser, all sorts of measures they need to put in place, that they need to put in place, spending a lot of money and supply at the moment, for example, ere staff need to self—isolate, so of the things were calling for a ery strongly lease let’s very strongly is a please let’s make sure that we give our schools and eges the money that they need in der to keep those premises as safe possible and keep schools open.
the headlines: borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month.
scotland’s new five—tier system of restrictions comes into force, with edinburgh, glasgow and the central belt facing controls on alcohol sales and restaurant opening times.
and new restrictions for wales — later today the first minister will set out his plans for when the country’s firebreak lockdown ends next monday.
as business in england face more restrictions, the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
borisjohnson will urge today to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england, when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
he’s expected to stress the government’s intention to ease the new restrictions after a month.
the prime minister announced on saturday that strict measures will be imposed across england from thursday.
people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
elsewhere, scotland has moved into its new five—tier system of restrictions this morning.
this afternoon, to to win over some tories who are threatening to vote against the lockdown in england.
and at the annual conference of the confederation of british industry, the outgoing—director general has criticised the way major announcements, like the lockdown in england, have been handled.
i think will make the point that he believes there has human cost to the delayed boris ohnson ollowing the advice of some of his scientific sors to go for it lockdown very uch earlier when they were advising to do in late september.
is he looking at he economic impact of a month—long own in england?
could there be formal assessment aboutyou will be questioned i think on some the evidence he is relying on, conservative have speaking his morning so they believe that age, the scientific advice has been ing, has been out of date, and some parts of the country where have had these restrictive tier ures, such as the city of 3 measures, such as the city of manchester itself, they actually nfections go down, so is he sing infections go down, so is he losing his nerve.
we’re dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace faster than we had anticipated or feared.
it’s the last thing we want to do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
in fact, what the prime minister will be arguing that afternoon in ouse of commons is that we can the house of commons is that we ran see deaths double the rate this than they did in the spring, there is a medical case for ervention.
one of them he was in he chair of the committee that represents the backbench opinions, aham brady, was telling the that some of these measures —— if they had announced in a totalitarian state one i spoke to ali this morning was esting that for example the overnment’s track and trace system was nothing short of a farce, as i think to some extent, simply at this , some of that criticism will be muted this afternoon.
people in scotland face new restrictions today, as the country is split into a five—tiered system.
the new rules came into effect at six o’clock this morning.
glasgow, edinburgh and dundee are amongst the areas with strict restrictions in tier 3, although no area in scotland is currently in the highest tier.
wales’s first minister, mark drakeford, will set out the new restrictions to be put in place when the country’s firebreak lockdown ends a week today.
people in wales have been told to stay at home except for exercise and essential journeys.
but it was a trial here injuly, just after lockdown, which heard details, revelations, about the hollywood couple, the breakdown of their marriage and a difficult marriage that it was.
etimes announcements are made ith intent to appeal in cases which fullness of time, once a reful consideration has been given dgment, come to pass, and judgment, do not come to pass, so it may well be that things might in due course, but we can change in due course, but we ran only look forward to the appeal ing and more evidence or a counting of the evidence before judges in the appeal court.
the headlines on news borisjohnson will urge to back his plan for a second national lockdown in england when he makes a statement in the house of commons later.
the is expected to stress the government’s intention to ease restrictions after a month.
as business in england face more restrictions the describes a second lockdown as a "real body blow" for firms.
the labour leader sir keir starmer has criticised what he called the government’s ‘catalogue of mistakes’ over the coronavirus crisis which he said have cost lives.
i said it would back with the discussions we ad over the weekend about the new of national measures which would in place here in wales when he firebreak comes to an end a week today, next monday.
ministers ave been meeting throughout the kend to consider the final tails of these measures.
but we do now ave to consider the impact the lish lockdown will have on the steps we take in wales.
every day, on a non—lockdown day, almost 150,000 a criss cross this border to peopla criss cross this border to work, to visit family, shop, do ness and to travel.
the english lockdown evitably impact on people inevitably has an impact on peopla who live in wales but work in and.
ill be coming out of our irebreak ust as england begins its long lockdown.
and it is ally important that as we open up, les does not become an escape for eopla seeking circumvent the new tighter restrictions imposed by the minister.
now, hen the firebreak ends next monday, will be a new set of national there will be a new set of national measures which will replace the ious local restrictions.
but previous oral restrictions.
but more important than any rules, dance or gulations which we put in place will be at the parts which one of us plays in responding the ongoing public health mergency we face in wales.
we can oduce new laws, but these will be successful if we all do rything we can to reduce our everything we ran to reduce our exposure to the virus, by keeping ontacts we have with other eople to a minimum, at home, in and we go out.
not the maximum, the rules allow.
our real strength lies, , as it has been ughout the pandemic, in the choices we make and the actions we take together.
now, when we ame of lockdown in the spring took a cautious approach, elaxing restrictions gradually to ure that we did not lose all make sure that we did not lose all the gains we had worked so hard to eve.
for the first two after the firebreak ends, the ational measures will be designed ximise the impact of everything that we have done together during irebreak period, to control the spread of the virus.
one of the most common conceptions about coronavirus is we catch it from people that we do not ow.
now, the rules around meeting people erhaps the difficult that are perhaps the most difficult that we have to consider and that is ked people to think about what hey should do, rather than simply hey ran do.
and we know that changing the rules to allow two eholds to join together and to eet at home, which will be very uable for many, many households walas, not reflect the in wales, does not reﬂect the family dynamics of many people and oes enable friends and young it does not enabla friends and young peopla to meet.
in relation to organised activity, up to 15 people be ble to meet together to will be able to meet together to take part in an indoors activity and 0 in outdoors activities up to 30 in outdoors activities provided of course, as ever, that ocial distancing, hand hygiene other covid safety measures are owed.
there will be no travel restrictions inside s, but during the month long ockdown in england, travel will not mitted outside wales without a reasonabla excuse.
we have over hospital beds have over 1000 hospital beds occupied by people with coronavirus ated nditions and very sadly, -related conditions and very sadly, again over this weekend, we had to more families losing loved to this awful virus.
it week to make a real erence to the course of this virus, to prevent our from being overwhelmed and to save lives.
if you think people should eave their homes when it is uinely necessary, then society is cally being asked to impose its lockdown.
so what we have to is a set of national rules ether the ongoing together with the ongoing determination of people in wales to right thing, for every one of us to ask ourselves that question, ontribution can we make to what contribution ran we make to keeping ourselves and others say?
at does not mean trying to and that does not mean trying to stretch the rules to do even more.
and in that way, go on together helping to ring the coronavirus under control give a through to christmas beyond.
so, we have been listening to a fing from the first minister of wales, mark drakeford, where he has nced a new nationwide measures which will take effect after the firebreak lockdown ends next eek.
ans for reopening hospitality, it nded as if they have been put on old or at least are subject to ther discussion, that of course in the light of the announcement england will face a second ckdown for a month from thursday.
walas, up to 15 people will but in walas, up to 15 peopla will be able to meet indoors for ivities, sports for example, and 0 outdoors, provided they abide by distancing rules.
let’s social distancing mles.
if we were not part of the united kingdom, we would not be having a ussion about for at all the illions and millions of pounds that been spent on supporting people are unable to work during oronavirus would be here for us to use -- furlough.
but without the treasury and without being part of that great insurance policy, not be debating whether or we would not be debating whether or not we were getting furlough unfair because we would not be terms because we would not be getting help with furlough at all.
independence is concerned, we have already an independent here that are able to make isions here for wales and throughout the coronavirus period i have used independently the powers is a welsh government to ake decisions that are right for as.
and could you also tell me what your thinking is care homes.
will visits be owed take place cut care homes allowed to take place cut rare homes are a constant cause of concern to l.
because one the virus gets into a rare home, we now have fast spread among the very vulnerable population and we know the devastation that ran follow.
while i do not want to this in the of offering say this in the sense of offering false hope to people, one of the that we do have some optimism at things will develop over the eks ahead is that he new neration of tests may become ilable where people will be able to minister themselves and be able the answer is very quickly ithin, let us say, half an hour, so asked our officials here to ork with the care home sector to e, as does become available, see, as does test become availabla, whether used for care home visiting be priority, one of the top would be a priority, one of the top things that we would use those tests they become available to us in walas.
because if that were the , e, someone could come to a care home, minister the tests hemselves, while they were waiting far, and within half an hour, hey would now hat they had a test positive and negative and if it positive, you could not visit t, but if it was negative 3 the it ould go ahead.
the sures that have been put in place england are designed to turn back ale of challenge that the scale of challenge that coronavirus has now caused to our and neighbours across the order.
those rules will have been in place by prime minister put in place by the prime minister for very good reasons.
are seeing more cases and england are seeing more rases and deaths than the reasonable worst nario model predicted also as wales also permits projections that mean there is likely to be more deaths than the 6300 that reviously feared?
if there is a local utbreak, follow a similar outbreak, will you follow a similar model with the figure of 50 cases 00,000 as a benchmark and were estrictions imposed by the same as e?
announcing a new nationwide measures ill take effect after the that will take effect after the welsh firebrick lockdown ends next it has work reiterating that these measures will not come into until next monday.
ere will be no travel restrictions next monday inside wales, but avel will not be permitted outside without a reasonable excuse.
so mark drakeford they’re announcing was a new nationwide measures hat will take effect from next day.
the labour leader sir keir starmer has criticised what he called the government’s "catalogue of mistakes" over the coronavirus crisis, which he said "have cost lives and livelihoods".
earlier, at the same event, the business secretary, alok sharma, defended the government’s decision to implement a month—long lockdown in england, telling business leaders and media "the cost of inaction would be greater than the action".
saying the party to build a new relationship, partnership with the business nity and that they really value community and that they really value the contribution business makes to ty, but as you said, he also ook the opportunity to really vily criticise the government and anagement so far of the coronavirus pandemic.
the central lesson of the first ways scratch make was ignored that if you control this virus, you have act earty and ecisively.
ris johnson, course, is going to be speaking the commons later day about the new lockdown coming england on thursday.
i really, lockdown was at the bigger focus of this morning’s discussions, siness is going to cope with a second lap time?
but in other ways businesses are worse off, ould any much healthier they would any much healthier position financially at the nning of the year because they ave now been dealing with the ncial impact of a pandemic for several months.
we need to recognise the covid safety of so many workplaces and keep as much of the economy open as we ran.
the trouble is, the furlough scheme ending in four weeks is tomorrow for so many businesses.
we are an open economy, we’re going to need to be able to again for our trade — for our global trade — for our recovery.
dame caroline airbairn said it would be conscionable to unleash a no—deal it on he and europe are now dealing with the second wave of the avirus pandemic.
today scotland has been placed under a new tier system across its council areas, restricting certain areas to harsher lockdown measures than others.
but, she says the country has a decision to face, as the government’s furlough scheme funding is only available during the month that england is in lockdown.
the position, as it has in so many countries across the world, remains ragile and we remain very very fragile and we remain very concerned about the rise in hospital and intensive rare commissions.
while that ision would never be easy, there no doubt that the availability of ore extensive unfurlough scheme the kind that the prime minister nounced on saturday would make it lass difficult —— furlough scheme.
what we have to be up coming ays as there is, should we take the opportunity of more rous financial support to step arder on the brakes now to to infection rates down faster more firmly?
—— suppressing the virus.
ideally, we would assess the impact of the current restrictions it longer before making that decision and, at the very least, until our next scheduled review which is during lectures, a tomorrow.
at this age, the indication is that the generous unfurlough scheme is going to be available for the -- urlough’s scheme during he period of england’s lockdown.
but we put of vital decisions while a we have debate with the treasury ause at the virus does not stop preading while we do that.
borisjohnson is due to address later this afternoon about his plan for a new four—week lockdown across england from thursday.
he’s expected to warn that covid—19 deaths could be twice as high over the winter as they were in the first wave of the pandemic without action, citing models from his scientific advisers.
but some other scientists insist there is still a better way to beat the virus.
i’ve been speaking to tom jefferson, an epidemiologist at oxford university, who says there is no modelling on the impact of a lockdown.
we do not really understand cases are calculated and how cases are ralmlated and projections we have seen, are cast we have seen of cases and eaths actually really quite aggerated.
isn’t one thing ain, though, that a lockdown definitely reduce the spread of tions and, therefore, the number of deaths?
well, the rtunately, the patchwork of restrictions that have been applied ghout europe actually make that throughout europe actually make that statement very problematic to check, ess.
because what you would have to do is you would have to have or nation or an area with me kind of restrictions and one thout restrictions and then mpare them.
what tain is that restrictions have is certain is that restrictions have an impact, human toll and they have nomic toll.
the casts that we see and that we re shown in now that the projected its on restrictions, but none the harms.
all deaths are regrettable.
the question ecomes wider, if you want to wed in question and it becomes as llows - we going to use follows — are we going to use restrictions every winter?
if we a very bad acute respiratory nfection season, are we going to using restrictions there?
cause this is the logic that is ind applying restrictions and ogressive restrictions.
i personally think it is regrettable, because of the measures that are taking impact on everybody.
borisjohnson prepares to ask to support his plan for a month—long national coronavirus lockdown in england.
the new restrictions are due to come into force the day after we’ll be getting the latest from westminster, where some tory say they will vote against the government.
also this lunchtime: facing another lockdown — businesses across england say the potential damage is immense.
prince william had covid at the same time as his father and the prime minister, but kept it quiet to avoid alarming the nation.
the prime minister is preparing to ask to support a new national lockdown in england to last four weeks.
in the commons later this afternoon he’s expected to warn that covid—19 deaths could be twice as high over the winter as they were in the first wave of the pandemic.
he is expected to stress that he intends to ease restrictions after a month.
from thursday, people will be told to stay at home except for specific reasons.
it was always feared the turning of the seasons, autumn then winter, see a surge in coronavirus cases.
it was that blunt reality forced the prime minister and scientific advisers to tell us downing street at the weekend at another lockdown for england coming.
we are dealing with a virus hat has dearty nature.
we are dealing with a virus that has clearly moved at a pace ster we had anticipated or feared.
it is the last thing that we do, to bring in such restrictive measures.
ecision to block a circuit aker, to dismiss it as a blunt strument, and to pretend that you rotect the conomy without controlling the virus will now mean usinesses have to close for that businesses have to dose for longer.
