president donald trump and the first lady melanie test positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
announcing the test results on twitter the president says he and the first lady "will get through this together" it comes after his one of his closest aides — hope hicks — tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips together in the past week world markets slump on the news with the dow futures index down — due to uncertainty about the operation of the administration we’ll be looking at what all this means for the election campaign — as the president is confined to the white house.
donald trump has said he and his wife, melanie, have tested positive for coronavirus and have begun a period of quarantine.
they were both tested after one of trump’s most senior advisers, hope hicks, found out she had the virus.
president trump confirmed the news on twitter, saying that he and the first lady "will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately" — and that they "will get through this !
before his positive test for covid, president trump spoke to fox news about his close aide hope hicks’s own positive test.
she did test positive, ijust heard about this, she tested positive.
she is a hard worker, a lot of masks, she wears masks a lot, but she tested positive.
and i just went out with a test because we spent a lot of time and the first ladyjust went out with a test also.
first lady melanie trump posted on twitter following the news that she and the president had tested positive for coronavirus.
she said: "as too many americans have done this year, the president & i are quarantining at home after testing positive for covid—19.
indian prime minister narendra modi said: "wishing my friend president trump and the first lady 3 quick recovery and good health.
the ’s prime minister, borisjohnson, who himself contracted coronavirus earlier this year said he sends his "best wishes to president trump and the first lady.
and the director—general of the world health organization, tedros ghebreyesus has given his "best wishes to the president and the first lady for a full and speedy recovery.
and in russia, the kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov has wished donald trump ‘a swift and easy recovery.
in terms of the ine when and how the president ontracted this virus, he obviously een in close contact with his ide, hope hicks, who also tested itive, that seems a reasonable sumption, but it’s from that close of advisers that this has appened.
she ted negative in a test for coronavirus on tuesday.
but then there was that positive covid—19 test and a short later, resident trump while later, president confirming both he and his wife had contracted covid—19.
as you point out, david, although the from his personal physician 575 ays he is ll, we don’t actually now, do we come off whether donald has any ymptoms of this virus currently.
of course, it is worrying ause at 7a years of age, and because at 74 years of age, and technically obese, president trump the high group as far as is in the high risk group as far as the coronavirus is concerned.
50 there are a lot of estions and n’t know how far questions and we don’t know how far this virus has spread but it is ainly there, in 1600 ave, that is very ying to a lot of people in this ountry.
on that point, david, eresting to see a tweet from mike mpeo saying he and his wife were ing to ubrovnik and had a test efore they off the plane, which as negative.
i guess there is that tation that individuals like expectation that individuals like mike pence and other key figures donald trump, will need to come rward and say what their atuses with regards to this virus.
crowchild much more now because of his positive test so what impact do you think that is going to have on how he operates in emaining weeks of the election mpaign.
the second reason this oblem for him is that he is trusted by erican voters on his handling of covid—19 pandemic, % of americans think he has done job in handling it
two and a half days ago at the presidential debate, he of biden for wearing a made fun of biden for wearing a mask, he mike tim, —— he mocked him.
with 1500 eople, their a rally with 1500 peopla, their chairs stacked virtually on top of ther and the one wearing each other and the one wearing masks, in violation of public health lines.
trump may now have to be guidelines.
let me tell you, we are seeing ters news agency, reports that the russian president vladimir putin donald trump a telegram, we has sent donald a telegram, we are told, to wish him a swift very after his positive test for covid-19.
ssian news agencies porting citing the kremlin that putin has said i am certain that inherent vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope with angerous virus.
i wish him a fast recovery.
he is now going into quarantine with the first lady for ten days, so the campaign is going to a halt.
what kind of bearing do you think this is going to have on the election, especially as president trump was trying to move attention away from the virus, i think it’s fair to say, he simply cannot do that now, can he?
i don’t think, he has taken the virus very seriously.
i think his opponents like to say he downplays it and now he has a personal experience sarah, i’m sorry to interrupt you, he has been, absolutely not a proponent of social distancing or wearing masks, when he has worn masks it’s been very late in the day.
i do hope that the other people around him also get tested and are in quarantine as well.
and so now, president trump has a personal experience and a connection to covid and the american people, you know, mayjust look at him sympathetically and be like, wow, he can now personally really feel our pain.
in terms of people planning to vote for president trump, considering whether they would vote for president trump, do you think they will feel sympathetic towards him or will they say, here is a president who has been trying to project an image of business as normal during this pandemic, keen to keep the economy open and so forth?
and now, he has actually caught this virus, this disease, himself.
this might have a negative effect on the biden campaign, harris is universally not popular across the country.
i wouldn’t wish this virus on anybody.
i think we seen is many people what we have seen is many people react differently to the virus.
as recently as last eek, he was at a fundraising dinner he was saying the virus is hind us, you know, we are over the mp.
america has got 40,000 new of infection a day.
you know, ompare that to the , with 7000, you see the dramatic measures hat are being taken here in the .
n’t see how the president could ossibly say that the virus, this sis, is behind us and i think his lness, if that’s what it is, is to be, makes his statements ery empty, that the virus is behind t’s going to be interesting to how much we see of him in the few days, given that statement the white house doctor, the resident ‘s doctor that he was well.
do we have any idea whether the president as well as biden, took a coronavirus tests re the debate earlier this week?
but do you think the fact that the president and his wife had positive for coronavirus is going to have any bearing ultimately on how peopla decide to vote?
testing positive for covid—19.
had and took a test and hile waiting on results of that test, stead of self isolating, she velled to london to the house of ommons, she took part in that ate, you saw the picture a minute go of her taking part in the debate he house of commons on monday ening.
also on monday evening she confirmation she was positive coronavirus.
now, let’s return to the news that ident trump has tested positive president has tested positive for coronavirus.
as an vidual who has covid—19, donald 74.
but we ’t know a lot beyond that of how actually is, whether he has any toms or not of this virus, do ?
we did get indications at mike pence was told to be on nd-by ecause the president would to undergo anaesthesia but now president has contracted onavirus and file all are hoping a speedy recovery, we don’t know as we would like to about as much as we would like to about the president ‘s health to determine act he will be able to recover from this virus.
and now we know the esident, now that he has ontracted this virus, the question mes what happens to those donors he desperately needs to be able provide the resources that he ds, be competitive over these 30 days?
are those donors really going fall away use the president to fall away because the president has this virus?
he is within the lnerable age group for clearly within the vulnerable age group for those who typically umb to this virus.
i’m joined now by , emeritus professor in the epidemiology of infectious diseases at the university of nottingham.
president trump, we have heard it times day already, since he tested positive, 7a, overweight, so to those categories which he falls into those categories which put him at greater risk from the but we are told by his doctor that he is doing well.
how important he has been tested really earty in this disease, how important hat hat be in ensuring he has a will that be in ensuring he has a good recovery from it?
at the nt, we don’t have any specific ntiviral treatments and remdesivir shortens your stay in hospital.
we do have another treatment which mortality rate by a third.
the old figures give someone in 705 and mortality risk of ound 8%, at higher risk cause he around 896, at higher risk because he is a man, but iven, he is probably fit and healthy 74—year—old mpared to ny, and also the main actor is obesity which also reases his risk.
i think just because ’s been tested earlier in he lness and found positive, you an actually unwell for a week or before can become seriously ll.
dearty with the virus, really quite the point he was admitted to ospital.
we don’t know and if he’s ted quite early in the illness, it part of a routine test, hen we do know small numbers of are actually and would have a very good prognosis.
the risk gets greater get older, but the vast majority of 19—year—olds in care have got covid in this homes who have got covid in this country have now fully recovered.
just word to ay that a german a quick word to say that a german government spokesman has said that a merkel has also sent her best wishes to president trump and nie trump, hoping they will melanie tmmp, hoping they will recover from the coronavirus ction soon.
president trump has tested positive for coronavirus.
his wife has also tested positive.
throughout the pandemic, trump, who’s 7a, has often refused to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
his special advisor hope hicks, who has also tested positive, traveled with the campaign.
on thursday, hope hicks tests positive for coronavirus as president trump travels to newjersey for another fundraiser.
donald trump then takes a test along his wife melanie.
president trump takes to twitter to announce that he has tested positive for covid—19.
with just a month left to go until polls open across the entire united states, how will donald trump’s coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—election?
a short while ago, our north america editor, jon sopel, explained how president trump could have contracted the virus.
it is simultaneously astonishing that the president who is so well protected, where testing happens so much, could have contracted the virus, and also not in the least bit surprising, given the ambivalent attitude in the white house towards wearing face masks.
those are two comorbidities that go with covid.
earlier, before he tested positive, president trump spoke by phone to fox news about news that his close aide hope hicks had the virus.
so, she did test positive, ijust heard about this, she tested tive.
that was president speaking just before he got own positive result back, along his wife.
he broke the news earlier that hope hicks, trump’s aide, had tested positive.
he explains what travelling with the president on air force one during the pandemic entails.
so, they to do as much as possible to keep us protected and we to do ourselves as much as possible to keep ourselves protected, but as we’ve seen, the system isn’t foolproof and of course the president and the staff are very much less vigilant about wearing masks and social distancing, and now we’re seeing something like a massive, possibly a massive outbreak, happening in the white house.
jeremy faust is an emergency medicine doctor and coronavirus specialist at brigham and women’s hospital and harvard medical school.
we’ve learned so much about this virus in such a short period of time.
we know that obesity, which he has, is a risk factor for serious and critical cases.
i mean, i have a mask right here.
i’ll put the mask on, you know, when i think i need it.
tonight is an example, everybody’s had a test, and you’ve had social distancing and all of the things that you have to, but i wear masks when needed.
0k, let me ask i don’t wear a mask like him, every time you see him he’s got a mask.
he could be speaking 200ft away from me and he shows up with the biggest mask i’ve ever seen.
first lady melanie trump posted on twitter following the news that she and the president had tested positive for coronavirus.
russia’s president vladimir putin wished donald trump a speedy recovery the ’s prime minister, borisjohnson, who himself contracted coronavirus earlier this year said indian prime minister narendra modi said and the director—general of the world health organization, tedros ghebreyesus.
borisjohnson has tweeted he hopes president trump and the first lady make a speedy recovery.
the ’s prime minister tested positive for coronavirus back in april.
earlier our political correspondent leila nathoo reminded us that he was the first world leader to contract covid—19.
sending his best wishes for a speedy recovery to both the president and the first lady, but you know, borisjohnson, when he contracted coronavirus, it was a completely different stage of the pandemic, it was back towards the end of march, when he revealed that he had developed symptoms, he had a temperature, a cough, and he was getting tested.
now, obviously, the testing situation back then was completely different as well, so he only got tested once he had developed symptoms, he was isolating in the flat above number 11 downing street.
he was admitted to hospital after about ten days or so, and then a few days later, going into intensive care, and it ended up in a situation where the foreign secretary, dominic raab, deputised for him officially when he was in intensive care, and it did look at one point that his situation was a bit touch and go.
of course, that all seems a long time ago now, borisjohnson has since made a recovery.
but you know, he has talked himself about his weight being a factor in how badly he was affected by coronavirus, he’s talked openly about losing weight since then, so, clearly, perhaps some comparisons could be made there.
but you know, it is worth remembering that borisjohnson was at that time the first world leader to contract coronavirus at a very different stage in the pandemic, but he was able to continue working initially, but then obviously once he had been admitted to hospital, recovered in chequers i think it was after he was released from hospital
obviously president trump at the moment at a very different stage, not showing yet, but perhaps he was tested, because of the regularity of testing, at a different stage of infection.
we have had other white house staff including the wife of his close adviser stephen miller who have tested positive.
and as your correspondent has noted there, trump has effectively flouted those restrictions that we have lived under in the , and in the , social distancing, mask wearing, other measures to to contain the virus.
he now has got it, i think it raises and elevates that question around effectively his denial and his downplaying of the virus, but it also raises the question of, how widely has it spread?
mike pence is technically head of the coronavirus task force, so you assume he would be briefing trump on that front.
first of all, it takes donald trump of the campaign trail and deprives him of his main tactic, which is those large rallies that he can speak for an hour or 90 minutes with no need to talk about social distancing or wearing masks.
two, it makes coronavirus the number one issue again when the trump campaign had been trying to push it aside — let’s talk about the supreme court, let’s talk about the supposed cultural wars with extremists and anarchists.
now the focus on health issues turns back on donald trump, especially since we still do not know whether he’s or with this virus.
she says president trump will find new ways to connect with american voters well, this is a wily virus and a lot of peopla who have been everything have gotten sick and the ident is now one of those people.
every person who gets within with him is tested, and so, this is actually kind of remarkable, ven with all of the testing of he people around him, that he has ill aged somehow to get the vims.
but this is a tricky virus, e’s just more ictim of and he’sjust one more victim of its.
he’s been in rge crowds without social istancing, without wearing a mask.
are the basic things that we re told to do to to protect elves from that virus?
ust one of those things, it’s it’s just one of those things, it’s a difficult virus.
laurie laird is an american politics commentator, she explained that in the past the president has been quite relaxed about the risk of catching the virus.
we know that donald is not ften wearing a mask, i was i was watching his nomination of ney barrett last weekend, in the rose garden at the white house — had a ask on.
it harked back nobody had a mask on.
it harked back to eartier days, e-covid days.
he didn’t have sk, judge barrett idn’t ave a mask, none of the sembled guests had a mask.
we know onald oesn’t like to wear a sk, we donald trump doesn’t like to wear a mask, we know that he’s mocked joe for earing a mask.
that his covid was caught we know that his covid was taught very quickly, he is probably one of tested men in the world, ould his condition deteriorate?
president donald trump and the first lady melanie test positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
announcing the test results on twitter the president says he and the first lady "will get through this together".
it comes after his one of his closest aides — hope hicks — tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips together in the past week world markets slump on the news with the dow futures index down — due to uncertainty about the operation of the administration.
donald trump has said he and his wife, melanie, have tested positive for coronavirus and have begun a period of quarantine.
they were both tested after one of trump’s most senior advisers hope hicks found out she had the virus.
president trump confirmed the news on twitter saying that he and the first lady "will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately" — and that they "will get through this together.
this raises a heap questions not least about who run the country should the sident develop symptoms.
very tle in the way of social distancing or mask wearing.
he will have to content himself for probably have to content himself for the next couple of weeks at the very with campaigning from the white house under quarantine.
they kept social distancing we know they kept social distancing while the debate itself was under ack behind the scenes, before and after that debate, how close did ecome and will biden now they become and will joe biden now be tested for coronavirus?
the coronavirus.
this is a virus the white house.
this is a virus that has killed more than 200,000 icans, 7 million people here have contracted it.
president trump een iticised of course for has been criticised of course for those open—air rallies, for his issal of mask wearing, he had a at joe biden out that during the the debate on tuesday night.
he wanted to steer the campaign away the issue of coronavirus, but from the issue of coronavims, but now it is front and centre of the presidential campaign.
lots of people eed extra testing.
we talked to her months ago when she had the virus herself and shejoins me now.
i hope you have recovered from the virus lf.
he is also male so being a man, being e, being over 75, our 705, obese, being over 75, in your 705, put you -- put you at a much higher and omeone in your 205, at risk and someone in your 205, at higher risk of being in hospital, ing ventilation and sadly of death.
my father in 05 had this virus at the same ime as my son his teens and my on was much more unwell.
before his positive test for covid, president trump spoke to fox news about his close aide hope hicks’s own positive test.
she did test positive, ijust heard about this, she tested positive.
she is a hard worker, a lot of masks, she wears masks a lot, but she tested positive.
earlier keith neal, emeritus professor in the epidemiology of infectious diseases at the university of nottingham, told us more about how president trump may respond to the virus.
at the moment we don’t have any specific antiviral treatments and sivir only shortens your stay in hospital.
he is mortality risk of around 896.
so he main factor is obesity which also increases his risk, i think just because he has been early in the illness and tested earty in the illness and found positive it can actually, you ctually unwell for a week or ran actually be unwell for a week or two before you become seriously ill.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
russia’s president vladimir putin wished donald trump a speedy recovery — saying: "i am convinced that your vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope with this dangerous virus.
" the ’s prime minister, borisjohnson, who himself contracted coronavirus earlier this year, has tweeted, saying he sends his "best wishes to president trump and the first lady.
she’s quoted in a tweet as saying — "i hope that they recover well from their coronavirus infection and are soon completely healthy again.
" indian prime minister narendra modi tweeted: "wishing my friend president trump and the first lady 3 quick recovery and good health.
" and the director—general of the world health organization, tedros ghebreyesus, has given his "best wishes to the president and the first lady for a full and speedy recovery.
" the nato secretary—general has ished 3 speedy recovery to resident trump in the last few nutes well.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
his special adviser hope hicks — who has also tested positive — travelled with the campaign.
on thursday hope hicks tests positive for coronavirus as president trump travels to newjersey for another fundraiser.
donald trump then takes a test along with his wife melanie.
president trump announces on twitter that he has tested positive for covid—19.
with just a month left to go until polls open across the entire united states how will donald trump’s coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—relection.
a short while ago, our north america editorjon sopel explained how president trump could have contracted the virus.
well, it’s simultaneously astonishing that the president, who is so well protected, where testing happens so much, could have contracted the virus, and also not in the least bit surprising given the ambivalent attitude in the white house towards wearing face masks.
the last full medical report we had says that he was obese, those are two comorbidities that go with covid.
so what impact is news of president trump’s positive test had on the world’s stock markets?
another person wishing him a speedy recovery is sarah elliott, who is chair of the republicans overseens group who told us what she believes this means for the upcoming election.
i wish him a fast recovery.
he is now going into quarantine with the first lady for ten days so the campaign is going to a halt.
now president trump has a personal experience and a connection to covid, and the american people mayjust look at him sympathetically and feel like, "wow, he can now personally feel our pain.
this may actually have a negative effect for the biden campaign because kamala harris is universally not very popular across the country.
despite now contracting covid—19 the president has faced criticisim for not taking the virus seriously enough.
would wish the president well, i wish him a speedy recovery.
i would this virus on anybody.
as recently as last week he was at a raising dinner where he was saying the virus is behind us, we ver the hump.
america has got 0,000 new cases of infection a day.
are that to the with 7000 and you see the dramatic measures being here in the .
i do not see the president could possibly say the virus, this crisis is behind us, and i think that his ess if that is what it is, is oing to make his statements very that the virus is behind us.
jordan fabian is the white house correspondent at bloomberg news — he broke the news earlier that hope hicks, trump’s aide, had tested positive.
he explains what travelling with the president on air force during the pandemic entails.
but as we have seen, the system isn’t full—proof and of course the president and staff are very much less vigilant about wearing masks and social distancing and now we are seeing something like a massive, possibly a massive outbreak happening in the white house.
president donald trump and the first lady melanie test positive for coronavirus and go into quarantine.
announcing the test results on twitter the president says he and the first lady "will get through this together" it comes after his one of his closest aides — hope hicks — tested positive for coronavirus — the pair have taken several trips together in the past week world markets slump on the news with the dow futures index down due to uncertainty about the operation of the administration.
let’s recap on our breaking news for viewers who might bejustjoining us — president trump has tested positive for coronavirus.
his wife has also tested positive.
throughout the pandemic, tmmp, who’s 74, has often refused to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
well, this is a wily virus and a lot of peopla who have been doing rything right have gotten sick, the president is now one of people.
every person who gets thin contact with him is tested, so this is actually kind of markable, that even with all of testing of the people around him has still managed somehow to get the vims.
but this is a tricky and get the virus.
but this is a tricky virus and he is just one more victim he has not been doing everything right, though, has he?
he has been in large crowds without distancing, without wearing a sk.
these are the basic things we told to do to protect ourselves the virus.
well, it may look ike he is ose to people in these owds but that might be a crowds but that mightjust be a trick of photography, because he is tually been in close contract not actually been in dose contract to make contact.
it is a difficult virus.
he bombed show like no other, a before the presidential month before the presidential election, donald trump and his wife anie, the lady, have tested melanie, the first lady, have tested positive for coronavirus.
was quarantine on the residential plane back to shington.
she was seen arriving with not wearing a mask.
the his team not wearing a mask.
the virus has killed more an 200,000 americans, and multiple tes are experiencing a surge in ses.
for months, mrtrump een cases.
for months, has been belittling joe biden for isolating at home in his basement and for wearing a mask during his public rances.
i don’t wear a mask appearances.
i don’t wear a mask like him.
every time you see him, got a mask.
he could be speaking 200 feet away from me and ows up with the biggest mask ’ve ever seen.
she explained that in the past the president has been quite relaxed about the risk of catching the virus.
we know that donald is not ften wearing a mask i was watching his nomination weekend in the rose garden at white house, nobody had a mask it harked back to earlier days, pre-covid-19 s, he did not have a ask, judge rrett did not have a ask, none the assembled guests ad a sk.
we know donald trump does not to wear a mask, that has mocked joe biden for wearing , one, questioned his masculinity.
how widely spread ough the west wing, through the ite ouse could coronavirus be?
so what impact is news of president trump’s positive test had on the world’s stock markets?
if that is a good one, president will be able to point to the act that the economy is covering from its covid—19 shock.
jeremy faust is an emergency medicine doctor and coronavirus specialist at brigham and women’s hospital in boston.
we have learned so about this virus in such a much about this virus in such a short period of time.
i put a mask on when i think i need onight is an example, everybody as had a taste and you have had ial distancing and all of these hings, but ear a mask when needed.
every time you see im, he’s got a mask.
we would certainly prefer do that instead of go out that he do that instead of go out like he was planning to, in person, ing lots of people together, xposing more people to this virus, ntially.
and what bearing do you think he is contracting the virus is to have he vote, these going to have on the vote, these remaining few weeks?
if he appears k, if he appears sick and, ecially if he gets intubated or on a ventilator, that would undercut that image of him, ven if it is subconscious for ple.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
his special advisor hope hicks — who has also tested positive — traveled with the campaign.
on thursday, hope hicks tests positive for coronavirus as president trump travels to newjersey for another fundraiser.
donald trump then takes a test along his wife.
president trump announces on twitter that he has tested positive for covid—19.
with just a month left to go until polls open across the entire united states how will donald trump’s coronavirus diagnosis hit his chances at re—relection?
eric ham, a political analyst in washington, looks at the affect the infection may have on donald trump’s presidency.
this is a president who has tried at turn and every opportunity to dismiss this virus.
the president so far as to say that if even went so far as to say that if you take out those who have died this virus in blue states, the united states would be doing very .
in, we heard from the again, we have heard from the president’s own recordings that he hat this virus early on was as knew that this virus earty on was as deadly as it is.
of course, the president’s proval rating on the virus has very, very low.
in fact, one of reason is perhaps den, the reason is perhaps whyjoe biden, the former vice president, is doing is because millions of so well is because millions of americans believe this inistration simply has not done nough to combat this virus, and now the president’s own cavalier response to the virus catching up to he question becomes, will it catch up to him to the point where him lose his presidency as a ult?
let’s look at how this story unfolded, the first lady melania trump posted on twitter following the news that she and the president had tested positive for coronavirus.
boris son mself went through a very johnson himself went through a very difficult time with covid—19 at the of the pandemic, pretty much.
good wishes, messages of recovery for the president and his wife.
well, boris johnson early speaking from perience, ving contracted coronavirus very early on in the demic.
you remember, it was pandemic.
you will remember, it was back at the end of march that he down with coronavirus symptoms.
testing was nowhere near despread as it is now, so he as only tested when he developed ptoms.
remember, it took more han a week or so for him to then be itted to hospital.
50, his admitted to hospital.
then, he was sferred to hospital and a few ays later went into intensive care.
of course, oris johnson ded up making a ecovery, ame out of hospital, cuperated at chequers, his country idence, and then eventually went to work.
it seems that he has ade a full recovery.
but i think he be watching president trump now, at the boris ohnson was now, at the time boris johnson was the first world leader to contract rus, but clearly some hope the virus, but dearty some hope that things do not deteriorate in the same way for president trump.
in the ontext, there was no imminent election, as there is in , but it was certainly a very larming time, because the pandemic in its early days, lockdown was just in its earty days, lockdown had just begun.
the world was still ling with coronavirus taking grappling with coronavirus taking hold.
and here you had the prime ster going down with coronavirus.
his health secretary well, but made a swift had as well, but made a swift recovery.
a very critical time for but, again, the context was different here, when boris on contracted coronavirus.
there were rhaps the same measures that are in place now and at the point in andemic, westminster was very uch the centre of coronavirus breaks and he has comedy health cretary as i mentioned also came with coronavirus and certain arce as well amongst other fficials in downing street as well.
but certainly, there the hope that precautions, will be the hope that precautions, isolation, regular testing will help ite house staff their work.
president trump and his wife test ositive for coronavirus and are f—isolating.
it comes after one closest aides hope hicks also est positive.
live in washington, where icans are waking up to the news eir president has the virus.
president trump and his wife have into arantine in the white gone into quarantine in the white house after testing positive for d—19.
mrtrump is often covid-19.
who is often downplayed the virus and seldom uses said they would get through his together.
let us take you the events just before esident trump tested positive.
let’s take a look at the events just before president trump tested positive for covid—19 and how this might impact events leading up to the presidential election.
his special adviser hope hicks — who has also tested positive — travelled with the campaign.
americans are waking up his stunning, shocking and nsettling news that the president he first lady have contracted is virus, 7 million americans have racted it, more than 200,000 have been killed, and now the virus is inside the white house itself.
he did not say anything about whether they had symptoms.
although it has been nded he is due to have all things about coronavirus with senior itizens.
trump and his wife milani at he first lady tested positive or coronavirus.
she perienced of covid—19 ccompanying the president at rally in minnesota.
the coronavirus has long been a ntral issue in the esidential election campaign, with democrats accusing trump of iling to alart nation to the everity of the disease and for oring the advice of his medical perts.
the virus has killed more an 200,000 americans and multiple tes are experiencing a surge in ses.
for months trump has been elittling joe for isolating belittling joe biden for isolating himself at home in his basement, and aring a mask during his public for wearing a mask during his public appearances.
not wear a mask like him come ery time you see him, he is aring a mask, he could be 200 feet and shows up with the biggest ask i have ever seen.
what is in place now in terms ontact racing, how many might have to quarantine?
one in that debate all had to tested for coronavirus.
but he may well of course been infectious at that point.
the president has played the virus.
this presidential campaign joe iden has tried to make which joe biden has tried to make into a referendum on the president’s ing of the virus, has put into stark relief, it is now put into relief.
signs of social distancing as l.
there was daily testing taking lace.
does look like the white house relying that testing.
i saw members of the champ entourage into that debate auditorium earing their masks but during the ate they did not have them on and president himself has very rely been photographed in public ing a mask, only about twice, once when he went to the military ital.
he has downplayed the importance of wearing a mask.
he has along america is rounding the corner, that a vaccine is coming he pipeline.
his focus has een to get america back to work to tore the economy that he felt was strongest card in this election, conomy so damaged by the virus.
“an you take us through hat the guidelines say terms of what president trump and elanie trump need to do?
important is it for we —— it wasn’t for know when the president last tested negative?
going back two to three from the positive test.
if he tested positive oday or late yesterday, they will go back two or three days have to go back two or three days and think about testing.
testing be close contacts for more han 15 minutes, not necessarily eone in the back of an auditorium hysirallv separated from the resident.
waiting for a test result ecause he was tested daily.
the son this virus is everybody’s danger as it was.
if you look great britain, canada, france, ael, we see the virus researching ommunities brought to have it control.
we know the severity of the illness president trump has and we not that for a couple of days, whether he has symptoms, how is hitting him, those are the questions investors will be ng, what they really want to now.
the otal number of positive cases orted sterday was 775, that is 12.
24 cases were in greater glasgow lyde, 64 in lothian, 102 in lanarkshire.
the remaining 185 cases spread across other health board eas.
i can also report 175 people in hospital is an increase are in hospital which is an increase of 21 from yesterday.
i also regret to report have been registered of ople who had first tested positive ovid during the previous 28 days -- eaths.
these numbers today not of rases but perhaps more rticularly hospital admissions, ers in intensive care and of people dying, uld remind us that this surgence of covid is omething we have to take very ously.
irstly, as i often do on a friday, your attention to an nouncement made last night, the ish element has added poland turkey to the list of those tries subject to quarantine estrictions.
and the three islands caribbean which means that from 4am tomorrow people travelling otland from these cases must self—isolate for a0 days on their urn.
deira and the azores will be removed from the list of places ect to restrictions but if you ave a ride from those places in the two weeks or if you arrive later today or tonight you will still have to self-isolate for 14 days.
these changes are another reminder of the virus in any country or area ran change quite rapidly and hey change our quarantine mles when they change our quarantine rules often change as well, so ase, this especially important as we approach the october holidays, carefully about any think carefully about any unnecessary travel.
remember the fact a country is from quarantine requirements when you go there does not mean it still be exempt when you come ack.
i have said before hat the app is not a magic lution, it does not replace the for the hard work being done by test and protect teams but it is eally important additional tool tackling covid and already oving its worth.
3 lion people have downloaded the app in past three weeks, more an a third of the people who had sted positive have been at it is in that time more than 2,000 ntacts had been advised to elf—isolate.
if you test positive for covid you will a code which you are meant to enter into the app.
that might sound obvious but we know at oment not everybody who has the and who receives a positive test is actually doing that.
nough people are doing it for the to make a ference but it app to make a difference but it would be better if everybody entered when they test positive.
this is a feature that is especially for some groups, useful for some groups, in particular, clinical staff in jobs ften involve being within two metres of other people but were ificant measures are in place to reduce the risk of oking at other we are also looking at other improvements to the act, we are ing hard with england and northern ireland on linking up tect scotland app with the other untries to support people who ravel, to these different ones travel, to make these different ones interoperable.
it takes less than minutes, data is kept two minutes, your data is kept entirely secure and anonymous, it is but really powerful way in hich we can all play our part in struggle covid.
the struggle against covid.
it is all of us self—isolate when we are asked to do viously cannot do that today without first addressing the issue garet ferrier, the who of margaret ferrier, the who travelled by train to london and nded the house of commons after aking a test when she should have self—isolating and who then ravelled back to scotland by train being told that her test was ositive.
margaret is a friend of so everything i am about to say bviously with the heaviest of arts and i wish her a speedy overy from covid.
i feel very angry on the you, every single day i stand here and i ask you to make endous sacrifices as part of our ollactive efforts against covid.
that means me being clear he rules apply to everyone, that the mles apply to everyone, regardless of who you are and rdless of what your political agiance .
trust me, it is one of the easiest things in the world litic to all for tough in politics to call for tough consequences when one of your nents breaks the rules, that is not hard of us.
the litmus test is whether you are prepared to same when it is one of your breaking the rules.
but i can make my views nown and difficult though it is, i have done so, and i hope she will to the right decision in the nterest of the overall integrity of vital public health messages.
we are aunching a dia campaign this vening which has been planned for eral days to stress the importance of self—isolation.
ntially if you have any one of the of covid you should to self—isolate immediately and ok a test.
the as a reminder of a new inuous cough, high—temperature loss or hange in taste or smell.
if you have covid, to elf—isolate for a you need to self-isolate for a further ten days starting from the date on which you took your test.
if you are identified as a contact of one with covid either by a test protect team or by the app you self—isolate for days.
you need to elf—isolate for longer than one who has tested positive because if you get covid you will be tious for a few days after the eriod of the person you got it m.
the reason is simple, have been in touch with someone who has covid during their tious period there is a chance you will also have covid even if you yet have and self solation is one of the most portant thing we can all do to sure are not unwittingly ensure we are not unwittingly sometimes transmitting the virus to anyone else.
ase, please self—isolate and book est if you ave symptoms.
before i finish and hand over to jason i also provide he usual reminder want to provide the usual reminder of the other key public health ance.
we should avoid rar sharing possible, work home if we can, download the otect otland app and finally all of us should remember , face rings, avoid crowded places, ean hands and hard surfaces, keep etres from other households, and self—isolate and book a test if symptoms.
i say this every you have symptoms.
but i feel a particular ponsibility today, i know how it is for everybody to follow rules and how angry people feel the mles and how angry peopla feel when they see others not following rules.
we have been asked to stick with all of these rules for ollective well—being of the the collactive well-being of the country and for each and every one .
i want to reassure anyone onsidering making a donation angements are in place to ensure fety at centres, they have reased social distancing, as would expect.
anyone with of covid has been in contact with or who has been in contact with anyone with sentence should not te.
the service is working to vance the fight against covid by llecting convalescent plasma.
a research is showing that the blood of somebody recently recovered from -19 may ontain antibodies covid-19 may contain antibodies which we can use for treating people spital are seriously unwell in hospital who are seriously unwell with the virus.
if you have had covid—19, either irmed through test or have confirmed through test or have yourself isolated because you have mptoms, and are now symptom—free for 20 days, the ice would like to hear from you.
the margaret rrier incident, highlights the act that people are adapting the meet their own rules to meet their own circumstances.
did the tell you thought it was so important that she goes to london, and what it tell you about people does it tell you about peopla are not following the rules?
look, a are are finding it really people are finding it really difficult to follow these rules.
the rules are complicated, mplicated the more we have more complicated the more we have come out of lockdown.
at times, erent rules apply in different les apply in different parts of ountry.
i think the vast majority of people want to low ese rules for the right follow these mles for the right people.
if you test ositive to absolutely make sure you complete that self isolation.
this is not a minor breach of the rules.
travelling on a rain when you know you are tive with covid—19 right now is ossibly the breach imaginable.
but i ran do is use the what i can do is use the circumstances to make it clear to that these rules apply to people that these mles apply to everybody.
to take some positive out of this, use the inevitable publicity us to underline to people around us to undertine to peopla we are asking for self isolation in circumstances.
in the circumstances right now, the grity of these public health sages, and my ability to stand re and look at this camera and see mles apply to everybody is too portant for me to to protect ebody who just happens to be a iend and colleague.
other thing i am conscious of, again i am not going to see nything that tries to excuse it, i have to bear in mind the fact she has covid—19.
i asked her he was, viously, and how she was, obviously, and thankfuuy so far she is not fering thankfully so far she is not suffering serious symptoms.
but this a nasty ran be a nasty virus so obviously i am concerned to know that her health these are all factors.
efore i go into that in some detail, as brieﬂy as i ran, ran i say that my absolute understanding she fully cooperated with and went through the test and ect and test and trace, as far england and the house of commons cerned, philly.
whatever i am about to say about lines, oes not affect that, peopla were properly notified if the protect and test entries ought there was a need to do that.
nderstanding is that the at estminster knew on wednesday that ad tested positive, but believed that she had taken a taste he had arrived back in once she had arrived back in scotland.
it was not yesterday, and my nderstanding is that there ormation came through the house commons test entries mechanism, not until yesterday my colleagues in the house of commons sed the circumstances.
that might test and trace mechanism.
they sed she had taken the test, travelled to london and travelled aving been told that she was hack having been told that she was positive.
the first i knew anything margaret ferrier having about margaret ferrier having covid—19 was yesterday afternoon, after ended first shortly after i ended first ministers questions.
by the hat discussion took place, the osition with the house of commons changed, so it was made clear to argaret she should issue a atement with all of the rcumstances and before she did at, she referred herself to the ice and i understand that she ok a little bit of time to inform pla dose close to her that she had peopla dose to her that she had covid-19, , and the statement was earty issued earty evening yesterday.
i am not going to get involved in tical statements here except to hat some of the people, i hear last night and ay, full of self-righteous criticism of the are peopla who completely lost their when a certain special tongue when a certain special adviser in london broke the rules self.
so it is easy to be critical when it is your opponent, test is whether you are the big test is whether you are prepared to do the same when it is your own.
to illustrate that beyond the figures, which is perhaps a rend, 3573 people have caught id—19 in this country in the last even days, and sted positive.
we have 19 patients in intensive care you have heard, an ncrease and you have just heard, an increase in hospital admissions of maybe 20 or so in the last of 24 hours.
we have also had 11 deaths in 48 hours.
you are right that those positive cases still many of those positive rases still are in halls of residence and in the population.
that will leak into a vulnerable community and you not immune if you are a student a serious illness.
however, two weeks ago we place really quite a severe put in place really quite a severe household restrictions.
guarantee it and it relies on each us following the rules.
ery single of us following those rules in order to drive those bers numbers down.
today, there are no existing plans to tighten up restrictions in local authorities.
you are setting these rules, telling that must follow them.
the thing i ran to make that only thing i ran do to make that clear is insist on the consequences politician breaks the rules when a politician breaks the mles being as severe and taking account circumstances of elected epresentatives and the sponsibilities they have, as they be if it was an ordinary would be if it was an ordinary member of the public.
she has already been suspended, as we have heard, the for breaking those oronavirus rules after travelling een westminster and glasgow, despite just two testing positive vid—19.
we can speak to the for covid-19.
we are a covid—19 secure building and at was put at risk by reckless behaviour.
were working with public health land to make sure everything we put in place was happening and the right measures were carried as i say, one person was in out.
she said it was agrant and angerous break of he rules.
we are in a y, very, this sends all of the ong messages and the fact that we put so much emphasis on trying the house in the right place, aking sure that we are covid—19 ure.
the fact is, we advise people to do, to behave, if you what to do, how to behave, if you show symptoms, please stay away, if need a test, going to get a you do need a test, going to get a taste, but whatever you do do not into the house of commons, and that message is loud and clear.
what i cannot llow for somebody feels ill, and have a test, does not bid or the result, turn up in rliament and then get a result to you are itive but then say you are positive but then disappear.
i believe ave the right measures in place but what we cannot do is sit on our laurels.
let’s go back to our main story — president trump and his wife melanie has tested positive for coronavirus.
throughout the pandemic, trump, who’s 7a, has often refused to wear a mask and has attended crowded rallies.
of course, we also have to make sure joe biden esn’t have the thatjoe biden doesn’t have the virus.
they did not shake hands but clear when trump it is not clear when trump contracted the virus so i am sure iden will so be tested and joe biden will also be tested and hopefully he does not have it as .
president trump and the first lady in quarantine after testing positive for coronavirus.
their diagnosis comes after one of trump’s closest aides, hope hicks, also tested positive.
" world leaders have been wishing them well well, obviously i think we all want to send our best wishes to the president and the first lady, and i’ve done that this morning, as you can imagine, and i’m sure that they’ll both stage a very strong recovery.
we’ll be asking to what extent trump’s age, gender and weight make him more vulnerable to the virus, and what it means means for the presidential election campaign.
also this lunchtime the first minister of scotland calls on one of her to stand down, after she travelled by train despite knowing she had coronavirus.
this is not a minor breach of the rules, it’s not an inadvertent breach of the rules.
it’s a really flagrant and dangerous breach of the rules.
and, on your marks elite athletes arrive for this weekend’s london marathon, but coronavirus means it will be a race with difference.
"we’ll get through this together" — the words of president trump, after being told both he and his wife melanie have tested positive for coronavirus.
it comes after hope hicks, one of the president’s closest advisers, also tested positive.
at 7a years of age, the president is in a high risk group, but his doctor says he and the first lady are well at the moment and planning to stay at the white house for their ten day quarantine.
the president has often been criticised for not wearing a mask and underplaying the dangers of covid—19.
president trump and he first lady test positive for the navirus and are in quarantine in white ouse.
a bombshell like no other — a month before the presidential election, donald trump and his wife melanie, the first lady, have tested positive for coronavirus.
she experienced of covid—19 while accompanying the president at a rally in minnesota.
she was seen arriving with his team not wearing a mask.
last night, trump told fox news found it difficult to maintain ial distancing.
the start the president onsistently played down the iousness of the virus and has criticised for opening up erica too soon.
