lockdown restrictions in the , affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
but hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under new coronavirus restrictions.
and if you’re in glasgow or in greater manchester, how are you reacting to the latest change in rules?
the coronavirus pandemic plunges australia into recession for the first time in 30 years.
there are plans for dealing with cases and responding to local outbreaks.
anyway but this is the first day back, really, in proper education for so many kids and although it is a staggered start and further year groups will come later in the week, it is a big test to see how things work.
you can see the social distancing measures in the corridor to to keep children apart.
they are not to be shared because of covid—19.
things are not as they would normally be, the classroom would normally be organised differently, the fact that kids are all facing the front is part of the measures to to keep people safe, 3 lot for people to get to grips with today and a lot of questions about how this will play out, whether there will be further disruption to learning because inevitably there will be hallenges to come, a really tough time but a really exciting day to see children back in the classroom in england.
the mayor of greater manchester, andy burnham, says the easing of lockdown restrictions in the boroughs of bolton and trafford is "completely illogical".
burnham’s urging people living in these areas to continue to follow the guidance and not to have social gatherings at home because coronavirus cases are still rising.
measures were originally introduced to combat new infections across parts of england’s north west and were lifted overnight.
the rules were reintroduced in july after concerns the virus was being spread between households.
the lifting of the restrictions means different households can again meet indoors or in private gardens, but councillors have criticised the government, accusing them of ignoring advice from health officials and lifting the measures too soon.
yesterday, we had the leader of bolton council, which is conservative, the leader of trafford council, labour, from different angles, both saying the same thing to the government, that it is not the right time to lift the restrictions and actually, trafford said last week to the government before they made their original decision, don’t lift the restrictions, and i am afraid that was ignored.
we are on the front line of fighting this virus and we have this "whitehall knows best" approach.
i would question the government, i’ve been an so i can vouch for the fact that most are not public health experts, directors of public health should be the most important voice in this, and certainly on both councils yesterday, the director of public health was saying, please don’t lift the restrictions.
it is frustrating to say the least that we find ourselves in a position this morning where boroughs with rising cases are seeing the restrictions lifted overnight, and neighbouring boroughs, still under the restrictions, with much lower cases, so no wonder the public is getting confused here.
people are now free to have gatherings but i am still saying to people, you know, it is not wise to do that because obviously, this is a week when schools are going back, we have a rising number of cases in bolton, which has gone right up to the top of the list.
we need to agree an exit strategy from the restrictions with the government.
what we are saying is, what has been most effective is door to door testing and tracing.
we are saying to the government, as part of the exit strategy for this, put the national test and trace system under more local control and we will take responsibility for it.
rose says she is part of the new people breaking the rules, people it don’t apply to them, who think it don’t apply to them, and he says lots of people, young old, ould know better.
but her last days of holiday and booked the , and we have not seen her since efore lockdown.
the scottish government, 75 margaret, has given clear advice the pandemic and thankfuuy the majority of the pulation have complied.
australia’s economy has plunged into its first recession in nearly 30 years, as the country continues to suffer from the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.
and scott morrison’s government has already pumped the equivalent of 147 billion dollars in stimulus measures into the economy.
hen a few weeks after that, vid—19 became a global pandemic australia closed its borders ternationally and internally, and than a million people lost more than a million peopla lost their jobs.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
but hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under new coronavirus restrictions.
the scottish government has imposed fresh restrictions to control the spread of the virus in glasgow and two neighbouring areas.
the new measures will affect nearly a million people.
the first minister nicola sturgeon said the number of cases had been rising mainly "as a result of household gatherings".
let’s just take you through those restrictions.
if a close contact has tested positive for covid—19, everyone in the household should self—isolate for days.
and only essential visits to care homes and hospitals will be allowed.
he was asked on breakfast whether the restrictions in glasgow and neighbouring areas had been introduced in order to keep schools open.
or education and public health.
touchdown last night at cardiff airport, holiday—makers, back from eek sland of santi, although the greek island of santi, although order to self—isolate for days be ered covid—19 tests.
last week, at least 16 people tested positive for covid—19 after arrivin back to cardiff from the greek island of zante.
again, because of social distancing protocols with covid.
the health minister says there are currently six clusters of cases, amounting to 30 new infections, linked to flights from greece.
last night, the scottish government imposed a 14—day quarantine restriction for anyone returning to scotland from greece as of tomorrow morning.
ministers say the move comes due to a significant rise in covid—19 cases being brought into scotland from people who have been to greece.
she the government is now facing mounting pressure from the welsh health minister to reimpose quarantine rules for greece, but the department for transport says no changes to its rules have been made.
it’s understood the government is considering putting portugal back on the quarantine list for all four nations, that’s england, scotland, wales and northern ireland, after cases this week went over 20 per 100,000 people, which is the marker for introducing quarantine measures.
measures that have helped slow down the flow of migrants but didn’t stop tragedies from taking place.
known as comrade duch, he was responsible for sending more than 1a,000 people to their deaths when the khmer rouge were in power in the 19705.
lockdown restrictions in the — affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased — despite strong local opposition.
but hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under new coronavirus restrictions 1a people go on trial, five years after the deadly attack on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo in paris.
the coronavirus pandemic plunges australia into recession — for the first time in thirty years.
and he had already done a greatjob with the economy before the coronavirus issue started, with shutting down our economy.
and do you think i mean, what do you think when it comes to the way president trump has dealt with the coronavirus pandemic, which is the key issue of our time?
so, yes, everybody is watching how our leaders are handling the coronavirus pandemic.
the 77th venice film festival is the first major international film festival to take place physically after several months of lockdown.
it’s usually one of the biggest events in the industry calendar but safety measures will mean things are rather different this year.
we need all to be aware of the health afety measures, and to be responsible, and to keep respecting and not saying the opposite, of course.
do you think the pandemic change the way the industry akes films?
campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died from coronavirus have accused prime minister borisjohnson of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group said it wrote to mrjohnson five times to request a meeting.
the bereaved who’ve suffered from covid.
since then, the prime minister has responded to the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice.
she lost her father bernard in april, after he was diagnosed with coronavirus in hospital, where he was being treated for a fall.
and we know, from the preparing for a challenging winter that patrick vallance commissioned and published in , that here is a reasonable rst—case scenario forecast of 9,000 aths this winter in 119,000 deaths this winter in hospital, if plans are not put into over the summer.
now, we, as a “- p, have first hand experience of what led to our loved ones’ deaths, ere is a lot of ssons to be learned.
down the street would say, of course we want to learn the ons, they say the prime minister emains committed to meeting people been bereaved as a result of covid—19 and that he is, quote, lute in determination to resolute in his determination to defeat this virus to prevent further tating loss.
these are very ifficult deaths to deal with, and is we are asking for avement counselling, specialist reavement counselling for people that have been briefed as well.
he went into hospital for a fall.
at the hospital refused to test him.
we waited another two weeks before we find another care home in the could find another rare home in the middle of a pandemic, but in those ega weeks he caught covid in ospital and on the 7th of hospital and died on the 7th of april.
ollows on from the people who were discharged into care homes hout ing tested, which led to a without being tested, which led to a large number of deaths.
he was deaf, so we could not speak to they could not fit his hearing aids because of covid.
this is a age from glasgow, somebody who now subject to new restrictions.
new lockdown measures, says mn, are the new lockdown measures, says rizwan, are absurd.
i’m a sponsible ividual who has responsible individual who has followed social distancing elines.
i can’t see this being iced, therefore i will not abide these new restrictions.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under their own local coronavirus lockdown .
prime minister borisjohnson is branded "heartless" by families of coronavirus victims after they say he declined to meet them.
the coronavirus pandemic plunges australia into recession — for the first time in 30 years.
there are plans for dealing with cases and responding to local outbreaks.
quite a momentous moment, notjust for these kids, their first day at big school, which would be a nervous and exciting and interesting time anyway, but this is the first day back, really, in proper education for so many kids and although it is a staggered start and further year groups will come later in the week, it is a big test to see how things work.
you can see the social distancing measures in the corridor to to keep children apart.
they are not to be shared because of covid—19.
things are not as they would normally be, the classroom would normally be organised differently, the fact that kids are all facing the front is part of the measures to to keep people safe, 3 lot for people to get to grips with today and a lot of questions about how this will play out, whether there will be further disruption to learning because inevitably there will be challenges to come, a really tough time but a really exciting day to see children back in the classroom in england.
the mayor of greater manchester, andy burnham, says the easing of lockdown restrictions in the boroughs of bolton and trafford is "completely illogical".
burnham’s urging people living in these areas to continue to follow the guidance and not to have social gatherings at home because coronavirus cases are still rising.
measures were originally introduced to combat new infections across parts of england’s north—west and were lifted overnight.
the rules were re—introduced injuly after concerns the virus was being spread between households.
the lifting of the restrictions means different households can again meet indoors or in private gardens, but councillors have criticised the government, accusing them of ignoring advice from health officials and lifting the measures too soon.
people are free now to have gatherings, but i am still saying to people, you know, it is not wise to do that because obviously this is a week when schools are going back, we have rising numbers of cases in bolton.
we need to agree an exit strategy from these restrictions with the government and what we are saying is what has been most effective is door—to—door testing and tracing.
so we are saying to the government as part of the exit strategy from this, put the national test and trace system under more local control and we will take responsibility for it.
the scottish government has imposed fresh restrictions to control the spread of the virus in glasgow and two neighbouring areas.
the new measures will affect nearlyi million people.
the first minister, nicola sturgeon, said the number of cases had been rising mainly "as a result of household gatherings.
" let’s just take you through those restrictions.
if a close contact has tested positive for covid—19, everyone in the household should self—isolate for days.
and only essential visits to care homes and hospitals will be allowed.
he was asked on breakfast whether the restrictions in glasgow and neighbouring areas had been introduced in order to keep schools open.
or education and public health.
campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died from coronavirus have accused prime minister borisjohnson of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group said it wrote to mrjohnson five times to request a meeting.
the bereaved who’ve suffered from covid.
fiona kirton lost her father bernard in april, after he was diagnosed with coronavirus in hospital, where he was being treated for a fall, and believes that the prime minister could learn important lessons from the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group.
and we know from the aring for a challenging winter report that atrick vallance commissioned and was published in that there was forecast a july, that there was forecast a reasonable worst—case scenario of 000 eaths this winter in 119,000 deaths this winter in hospital if plans are not put into over the summer.
and we, as a “- group, have first—hand experience of our loved ones deaths what led to our loved ones deaths and there are a lot of lessons to be ned, and yet we repeatedly have sked and asked to see him and matt ock
so i think the difficulty i suppose from ime minister’s point of view if he meets these families then well get into arguments, not about his handling of he coronavirus crisis, but more sure were placed on him to have enquiry sooner rather than r.
the ernment has said they have learned a lesson from the first wave erre y’re learning more about the and therre learning more about the virus time again.
what they are also sting is hat in the middle of suggesting is that in the middle of the pandemic it is the wrong time to hold an enquiry.
they pped back from insisting that virtually every had to be in chamber during the last on, so at the moment those who re shielding or with relatives who hielding, they will still be lowed to take part remotely, so to extent that is also a product the fact so few people can an actually be he chamber itself to llow full social distancing, so it likely to go on until ovember.
the government is hoping that there isn’t a second by then that there isn’t a second wave of the coronavirus and efore parliament could perhaps therefore partiament could perhaps resume a little bit closer to al, even though numbers would ill be restricted.
will actually be getting the ews of the opposition on that cision by boris nson not to decision by boris johnson not to meet the families of the bereaved covid—19 as they would like to .
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased — despite strong local opposition.
australia’s economy has plunged into its first recession in nearly 30 years, as the country continues to suffer from the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.
and scott morrison’s government has already pumped the equivalent of $147 billion in stimulus measures into the economy.
then a few weeks after that, covid—19 became a global pandemic and australia closed its borders internationally and internally, and more than a million people lost theirjobs.
england is facing pressure to reconsider quarantine rules for greece after scotland and wales introduced new measures over concerns about rising coronavirus cases.
the holiday company has cancelled all holidays to the zante resort of laganas because customers have been failing to follow coronavirus safety measures.
touchdown last night at cardiff airport, holiday—makers, back from the greek island of zante, although ordered to self—isolate for days and be offered covid—19 tests.
last week, at least 16 people tested positive for covid—19 after arrivin back to cardiff from the greek island of zante.
again, because of social distancing protocols with covid.
the welsh health minister says there are currently six clusters of cases, amounting to 30 new infections, linked to flights from greece.
last night, the scottish government imposed a 14—day quarantine restriction for anyone returning to scotland from greece as of tomorrow morning.
ministers say the move comes due to a significant rise in covid—19 cases being brought into scotland from people who have been to greece.
the government is now facing mounting pressure from the welsh health minister to reimpose quarantine rules for greece, but the department for transport says no changes to its rules have been made.
it’s understood the government is considering putting portugal back on the quarantine list for all four nations — that’s england, scotland, wales and northern ireland, after cases this week went over 20 per 100,000 people, which is the marker for introducing quarantine measures.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
hundreds of thousands of people in glasgow and surrounding areas are now living under their own local coronavirus lockdown.
prime minister borisjohnson is branded "heartless" by families of coronavirus victims, after they say he declined to meet them.
coronavirus is just one of the anxieties children and parents may face about going back to school.
pupils may also worry about being bullied or making the transition from lockdown to being surrounded by hundreds of other children.
we can give a forum, we an hear negative as well as ran hear negative stuff as well as good stuff.
more new on the group of campaigners representing families whose loved ones have died from coronavirus, who have accused prime minister borisjohnson of being "heartless", after he refused to meet them.
the covid—19 bereaved families forjustice group said it wrote to mrjohnson five times to request a meeting.
well, he ran do more than have words, he can act and show he has that he has learnt lassons, and i think, if you look back over the of this pandemic, there has een a series of questions about ernment decisions, be it on , eparations in the first place, ial care, and families who have ost ved ones will want to know hat the government have understood it’s gone wrong and have put where it’s gone wrong and have put in place measures to prevent a at of some of the horrific nes we’ve seen this year.
just to a it more from his letter, he does address partly what you are ng, he says, i will of course eet members of the public and key kers who have been bereaved as art of covid—19.
each story of loss vates me to ensure we beat this virus together.
he says, much as i would wish to be able to offer my olences in person to all of condolances in person to all of those who have suffered loss, that is not possibla so i am and am -- i am unabla to meet with you and he s, as for the issue of an independent enquiry, the government there will be opportunities to look back and analyse and reflect aspects ovid—19, and he on all aspects of covid-19, and he says, as i have previously made r, this will include an enquiry the appropriate time.
measures that have helped slow down the flow of migrants but didn’t stop tragedies from taking place.
lockdown restrictions in the affecting more than a million people in parts of greater manchester, lancashire and west yorkshire are eased, despite strong local opposition.
now, back to the coronavirus restrictions across the .
eight areas of the north of england — where people were told in late july there was to be no visiting another household, even in a garden — are having those restrictions lifted today, although local leaders in two of them — bolton and trafford — would have preferred to keep them because they’re worried about a spike in infections in recent days.
restrictions have eased in some parts of the north—west — but not everyone is happy about it.
despread easing in terms greater manchester, cashire and west yorkshire, but, that ans, of course, that embers of two households can meet their mes and gardens, as long you maintain social distancing, emains key, but then you have that remains key, but then you have this situation in bolton, trafford ockport, asking for a delay in he easing, because they are saying the infection rates are going and it isn’t safe to be actually this.
we have heard from the reater manchester mare, andy nham, saying that easing is llogical with cases increasing, so a really situation at the moment, and it’s not clear how this to be clarified and how uickly it’s going to be clarified.
glasgow and surrounding areas have new restrictions.
we don’t have that much detail but they ying, because of an increase in cases, people should not visit ople’s houses, and that will remain in force for the next two s.
have to wait and see, but whether government will decide there be automatic quarantine for nybody coming back from greece, in, they are very worried about he situation, particularly on the sante, where people have island of santa, where peopla have come back and there have been ters of cases in the , clusters of cases in the , particularty lots of young people tying on nte, a real party partying on zante, a real party island, and then they are importing cases into the , so is nother big worry which the government needs to deal with.
i want to to the chair’s question, about the testing of this algorithm.
known as comrade h, who was responsible sort nding more than 1a,000 people to their their deaths in the 19705.
there is definitely a edly different feeling westminster yesterday and today, there are more back now because there are more mp5 back now than there were initially during little months of lockdown, and we have just come out of the summer ss, so it’s the first time we ill see boris nson and keir tarmer across the dispatch box and is probably quite a lot that could come up because, over the er, there has been quite a lot that the government has had to deal that exams, what happened with with, that exams, what happened with the a—levels and results, where upboard to u—turn and came the cupboard had to u-turn and fame in for a lot of flak, questions over economy, ause some of the key the economy, because some of the key support schemes, they are coming to , so it’s about government plans about that, it’s about how the nment might pay for some of the spending bills it has racked up tried to put in some support hroughout this pandemic, and of today we have had this story bout some of the families who lost ones during the covid pandemic anted a meeting with the prime minister, and they say today they think that’s going to happen because they have received a letter oris ohnson, so it’s possible from doris johnson, so it’s possibla that could come up, so there is there, but as ever with prime inister’s questions what is also tant is the mood in the house commons, and we know that, before s, during lockdown, some people thought that starmer, the thought that keir starmer, the labour leader, had the advantage use they said he had a very calm ay for questioning, which really ned boris hnson, and boris pinned boris johnson, and boris johnson did better with the support backbenchers, so we will see how that might feel different today, ’s what comes up from the and it’s what comes up from the backbenchers themselves, what tions they choose to put to the prime minister and how he responds.
because viously these have been testing nths.
and then of course the country and the world was hit with a pandemic, so they might have knocked his original priorities of e, but from a government course, but from a government perspective what they are hoping to est firmly back onto that do is rest firmly back onto that ground, the things about the omic recovery and making sure hose seats they won last year are catered for, there has been me real discontent though on the backbenchers about how the vernment has handled all of this.
speaker, perhapsl could begin by congratulating the honourable gentleman on his rthday and say to him that on the and the stress that young ople have been through over the mmer both the secretary of state education and i understand very how difficult it has been for hem and for their families going ough a pandemic at a time when we ave not been able because of that ndemic, in on with most other pandemic, in common with most other countries in the world, to stage examinations.
because the next jor decision for the prime inister is on the furlough scheme, obs of illions people at with jobs of millions of peopla at risk.
the longer he delays, the more re at risk, so will he act w, finally get this decision right commit to extend the furlough or those sectors and workers who perately need it?
what he wants do is end the furlough scheme, hich this country has already spent illion.
speaker, itake response ability for everything that ppened under this government hroughout my period in office and what has happened so far is hat we have succeeded in turning tide of this pandemic and in pite of the negativity and the stant sniping from the opposition, we are seeing a country not only going back to that is not only going back to school, but going back to work.
they gave me incredibly ccounts of how covid—19 had taken taken their loved ones from them.
speaker, if say say to the right honourable judgment it olutely typical of him that she should frame it in that way use when i made that answer and course i would be very happy to the families of the bereaved i sympathise deeply with all who have lost loved ones roughout this pandemic.
i hope, speaker, he will also say that it is or the work force of this safe for the work force of this country to work in a covid—19 secure want to ake this country way.
were not only getting the mic under control, with death own and hospital admissions way .
we will continue to tackle it with lockdown is, with our uperiative test and tray system, ich by the before they sneer, before they mock at it, speaker, conduct more tests than any other country in europe.
speaker, i members of opposite on rties seem to want to extend all parties seem to want to extend the furlough scheme, which has ady cost this country £40 billion, help supported 11 million a, but after all keeps them in people, but after all keeps them in suspended animation and prevents rom going to work.
rlough scheme is there to the furlough scheme is there to protect people so they can come back work to work when the time is right.
speaker, france, germany and ireland xtended their furlough scheme into 2021.
we all now that jobs are threat if know that jobs are under threat if the furlough scheme ends in october.
will he do duty and tend the furlough scheme?
speaker, what we doing is not only continuing the furlough scheme, as he ows, until the end of the month, ich is by far more generous, by way, than ything but i did in the way, than anything
we are nuing with it, but we will also continuing with it, but we will also after that scheme elapses, we will with other measures to get on with other measures to support people in work and starting there is kickstarter today there is the kickstarter scheme to help young people get the hat they need.
well, speaker, as onourable gentleman knows, there are a great number of mes in addition to the job retention scheme that support people and in all sorts of sectors, the coronavirus loans, they bounce loans, grants that have been made to businesses of all s.
but it is also very important that people back into the we get people back into the workplace in a covid—19 secure way like the leader of the and unlike the leader of the opposition we do absolutely hope to hem confidence that it is a ood idea to go back.
as he will know, around access to schemes for the rules around access to schemes for alternative finance are not the nsibility of my rational responsibility of my rational friend, the chancellor, but for the england, but i’m sure the government will have heard him y.
7 billion of support and in land, as i’m sure he never tires of saying, the overall support for ing coronavirus has been in the order of about £4 billion.
now, one positive is among oom of the covid—19 pandemic is that his year’s i am a celebrity be found not in new south wales ustralia, in our own north alas.
given so public sector workers, such as rses, police, firefighters, chers and others have put their on the line to fight covid—19, rely this uld be an surely this would be an unconscionable betrayal?
does he agree me that the fantastic skills hese workers have a vital as part green recovery and will he ork to me with me to assure the success of our button ufacturer’s of both domestic and ort markets?
i was a keen of alexander dennis and his fantastic machines and i hope that an recovery and a massive investment in green buses, and i can’t guarantee this, but i hope it of benefit to the workforce of alexander dennis.
speaker, he prime minister is stumbling ward into mass unemployment with he sudden and universal removal of ugh and towards a further spike resurgence in coronavirus, due making ple who are working to making peopla who are working from home travel to work.
in order nimise further and future bad ecisions and u—turns, will he fully re the online parliament, so restore the online partiament, so that all voters can be fully esented in all debates and all lawmaking, as happens in the welsh nment and the scottish government and the scottish government and the lords, whether shielded or unshielded, so that we make the best decisions with ast harm during the pandemic during the recession by the ntroduction of proper online mocracy?
i think actually he people of this country want what the peopla of this country want to see is their representatives back seats as fast as possible on their seats as fast as possibla in the palace of westminster and is what we should work for and at is we are working together drive down this virus and create vid-19 ure environment.
thank a covid-19 secure environment.
i what i want to say to her is that this is a pandemic that this government is dealing with extremely ectively as a medical level and at we want to do now is in a ovid-19 ecure way, not only get children back to school because hat is is happening today, in that is what is happening today, in spite of the i don’t know where as been on this question, but spite of the leader of the pposition and his colleagues, and also want to do is get our what we also want to do is get our country and economy back on its feet and get us back to work, so again and get us back to work, so i hope that she and her colleagues say that it is also safe to go back to work in a covid—19 secure my honourable friend will be aware that, welcome though it is, the of the new term this week will challenging for all schools, pecially for burton green church gland academy in my of england academy in my constituency, where hs2 has just sed road many parents use to closed the road many parents use to access the school.
low public confidence in social distancing ures means many businesses are struggling.
indefinite furlough is just not answer.
i want to bring you stop while ime nister’s questions was under y, we heard that there has been turn on he local restrictions u-turn on the oral restrictions around covid—19 in bolton and ford.
we were reporting earlier that they being lifted, but there was a lot of local unhappiness cause had been a spike in because there had been a spike in the number of cases, and now the secretary has announced that is going to be changed.
let’s go back to the restrictions around covid—19 in bolton and ford.
just artier, we were talking about more a a million people in greater nchester, lancashire, west kshire looking forward to restrictions being eased so that ers of two households could actually meet up with each other, ctually, at that time, we did now that bolton and trafford, these areas, were asking for a elay in the easing, because they saying there has been a ignificant spike of infections.
in the last our or so, we ave had a statement health secretary matt hancock ying there has been a significant in the level of infection so bolton and trafford will main under the existing estrictions, which means members of ouseholds in those areas will be able to meet up.
speaking at first minister’s questions — nicola sturgeon has been addressing the fresh restrictions and the latest deaths in the country.
an additional 156 cases of covid were found yesterday, and the total now is 20,788.
258 patients are in hospital, ewer than yesterday, and five eople are in intensive care, one wer an yesterday that i am sorry say that, in the last 2a hours, death registered of a one death was registered of a patient who had tested positive, and mber of deaths and that measurement 2495 the in additional, nal record of scotland has troduced its latest update, which udes cases where covid is a uspected ntributory cause of ath.
last night, we announced that greece has been added list of countries subject to quarantine restrictions.
test and has had in recent days
that a number of new covid cases can be nected individuals returning rom that country and any strictions apply from thorium morrow.
there ran be no guarantee that the mles on quarantine will not while the rules on quarantine will not change while you are awake and ect you on return.
the level of covid is rticularty high and rising in ese
the ate we now get from and protect allows us to be re targeted in the measures we and what we know is that unlike he cluster in aberdeen 3 eeks the cluster in aberdeen a few weeks ago data so far suggests that smission in western scotland is pening not exclusively but mainly eople’s homes.
lastly, visits re omes in these areas is to care homes in these areas is restricted to outdoor only, and ital visiting will return to essential visits only.
have not been put in place but they are necessary and elieve proportionate and we hope hey will allow spread to be ntained at an early stage without for further measures later.
if we let it, the virus spread rapidly but, if we stick some basic rules and continue to sacrifices we can stop it.
blunﬂy, but only works if we all do things, so please make sure you are aware of the rules and stick hem follow face coverings, avoiding public bases, clean hands surfaces, keep two metres tance and, self—isolate and book if you ave this is more a test if you have this is more important than it has been at any of the pandemic so far.
nicola urgeon on the new restrictions in asgow.
pupils in england and wales have been going back to school after the unprecedented shutdown during the coronavirus pandemic.
our correspondent, tomos morgan, went to a primary school in barry island earlier to see what measures have been put in place for children to return to the classroom safely.
barry island primary school is reopening for some pupils today in wales.
i was lucky during the whole covid crisis because we used the hub, but they missed their friends, that teacher contact and learning.
i’m lucky to work with the dynamic teaching team, so they are really the hands—on, integral to setting up the school ready and again going with the risk assessments based on government guidelines and the local authority’s advice.
let’s go back to that breaking news in the last few moments that there een a government u—turn over he lockdown restrictions in bolton trafford, and trafford, urrey, where restrictions are going main after they were supposed have been lifted after the health etary was in consultation with oral leaders and there was a big in the level of infection tes in the last few days.
he says, spite what i and local press erstood, bolton is being ept in oral lockdown.
bolton and trafford councils have written to vernment yesterday but parently they haven’t had any ponse by last night, so this orning the mayor of greater chester was out saying that he unhappy about the restrictions eased, and now, just in the half an hour or so, that ancock has the restrictions are to be put back in place.
millions of pupils in england return after the coronavirus lockdown.
we’ll be seeing how they’re getting on and asking if the safety measures are working.
another government u—turn — hours after lifting them, restrictions in two parts of manchester are reimposed.
then throw in the added baggage of coronavirus, weighing on 11—year—old shoulders.
masked for the bus ride but eager to learn after months of lockdown.
we were missing out on a lot of learning during covid, so it’s good to be back.
the signage around the school is excellent, amy knows what’s expected of her, so i think we’re feeling as positive as we can.
we hope that, at least, this will give them the chance to get settled into school and then if there are cases and we find there has to be lockdowns, or things change again, then they will at least know what they are doing and they will be
